# NetworkX Developer Discussions:  August 27th, 2020

In attendance: Stefan, Mridul, Kelly, Ross, Jarrod, Dan, Eric

## Topics

- Welcome and news (v2.5 Released)
- update on CI using gh-actions
  * Experimenting with pygraphviz - seems very easy to do minus GraphViz installation on Windows (Ross will followup with GraphViz folks)
  * Mridul: recently set up the black/linting github-action for another project
    - Link to gh-action config: https://github.com/econ-ark/HARK/blob/14d2477f165dafca6ea1d5ef1da2e9139ad00258/.github/workflows/pre-commit.yml 
- update on pygraphviz
  * Dan: CL -> library-based interface. `cgraph` lib interface is nice as it avoids some CL/global var problems, but will lose some functionality
    - Two limitations:
      1) `cgraph` doesn't include preprocessors, which are available via CL
      2) Would need to write some sort of parser to map the flexibility of CL interface to the library interface.
- PyData talks/sprints heard anything?
  * Jarrod: Accepted 30 min talk for PyData global
  * Mridul: Other talk accepted, "unofficial" sprint is a go, "official" sprint status - still waiting (distinction between the two not *very* clear)
      * Question from Eric: For this sprint, I think our last sprinter, Will Peppo would be interested in helping! Any chance we could invite him to the weekly meetings too?
          * Possibly better not to for the time being.
- Roadmap:
    - dependencies? linalg (see below)??
      * Jarrod's (potentially controversial) idea:
        - Background: Currently very minimal requests for non-CPython implementations (Jython, IronPython, PyPy)
          * PyPy: focused on 2.7, support for newer Python 3 versions (>3.6) is spotty and/or non-existent. Potentially leaving the software conservancy group?
        - Proposal: Turn our dependencies (numpy, scipy, lxml, etc) into hard dependencies
          * Removes boilerplate code related to conditional imports
      * General consensus: okay to submit a PR for review!
    - cython in ticket what implications? https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/4169
        - Proposal (EM): For Cythonized/Numba-fied/accelerated functions, put that stuff in a separate repo, e.g. `nx-turbofuncs`, which:
            - adheres to a defined API,
            - is labelled "experimental",
            - includes pure Python implementation,
            - has contact information for original contributor so that they can be contributed,
            - released on a separate schedule from NetworkX
            - We have consensus on this one.
            - Includes benchmarks (with a pure-Python implementation as the baseline)
    - generator/create_using interface
        - Past discussion at [#1393](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/1393) and [#3036](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/3036)
        - Inefficient to construct a Graph if we only need the edges.  [How inefficient?]
        - Current generators don't allow starting from an existing graph. [But can now use G.update(nx.path_graph(nodes))]
        - Confusion about create_using being a factory or a graph instance. [Could make it always a factory now]
    - thoughts about matrix data structure: csgraph/pyData.sparse/Scipy.sparse interface.
      * Ross: still haven't read anything yet, but Stefan/Jarrod pinged Hameer (`pydata.sparse` maintainer) and unfortunately pydata.sparse doesn't magically solve our problems because they are still relying on conversion through `scipy.sparse.csr_matrix` for linalg ops.


## Additional discussion:

<details>
  <summary>Zoom chat transcript</summary>
13:02:56	 From Kelly Boothby : Hi everybody, i'm fighting audio D:
13:05:43	 From Kelly Boothby : very vader-esque
13:05:56	 From Ross Barnowski : haha spot on :)
13:14:22	 From Stefan van der Walt : The last seen date is not promising.  But looks like Microsoft now makes available VM images for Windows: https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/virtual-machines/

	carly		ec:b1:d7:6e:58:fc	stefanv	Hewlett Packard	2020-01-09 02:20:13
13:14:28	 From Eric Ma : Mridul, can you send a link?
13:15:33	 From Mridul Seth : https://github.com/econ-ark/HARK/pull/813 the PR
13:15:38	 From Mridul Seth : https://github.com/econ-ark/HARK/blob/14d2477f165dafca6ea1d5ef1da2e9139ad00258/.github/workflows/pre-commit.yml
13:15:45	 From Mridul Seth : The GitHub action workflow
13:16:20	 From Mridul Seth : https://github.com/pre-commit/action
13:16:24	 From Mridul Seth : The action
13:16:28	 From Eric Ma : Thanks!
13:16:42	 From Stefan van der Walt : We do this for SkyPortal:

https://github.com/skyportal/skyportal/blob/master/.github/workflows/test.yml#L100
13:30:04	 From Kelly Boothby : that can be a good investment
13:31:12	 From Kelly Boothby : lol omg
13:32:00	 From Mridul Seth : @Ross did that issue analysis work ?
13:32:14	 From Mridul Seth : Like did you find actual “important” issue s
13:35:52	 From Stefan van der Walt : "During the last year PyPy and Conservancy have worked together to properly utilise the generous donations made by stalwart PyPy enthusiats over the years and to wrap up PyPy's remaining charitable obligations."
13:36:13	 From Stefan van der Walt : "PyPy will remain a community project" <-- hmm
13:38:52	 From Ross Barnowski : @mridul - here's a dumb static site I threw together. We haven't *really* done any analysis, just putting everything in place to do so: https://rossbar.github.io/github_graphql/content/basic_graph_analysis.html#centrality
13:42:38	 From Kelly Boothby : what's the issue #?
13:44:48	 From Stefan van der Walt : 
    - cython in ticket what implications? https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/4169



13:44:51	 From Stefan van der Walt : https://hackmd.io/ea2IhUuqSrG4kM9tokXuEw
13:45:12	 From Kelly Boothby : I'm a very old-time user of cython -- I think it would be really good to support high-perf code
13:50:37	 From Kelly Boothby : A cythonized integer-label backend with thin dict wrappers can gain a lot of performance when people implement algorithms handling the backend directly
13:50:59	 From Stefan van der Walt : That's probably true, since you can avoid all the type checking.
13:52:43	 From Stefan van der Walt : https://transonic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
13:52:49	 From Kelly Boothby : It's worth mentioning that scipy.csgraph has some overlap with the algorithms that networkx implements -- maybe if we integrate that more... yup what Dan said
13:52:59	 From Mridul Seth : Benchmark done by Tiago(Graph-Tool) https://graph-tool.skewed.de/performance
13:54:36	 From Stefan van der Walt : From PyPi leader:

The SFC sucks. We had a massive struggle with them producing paperwork
and not letting us spent our money. So we left, mostly for open
collective. The corpo-speak blog post is something SFC insisted on and
whatever, farewell.
13:59:18	 From Kelly Boothby : There is a middle road where we get more involved with scipy -- maybe a decorator could be added to certain networkx functions to shunt over to csgraph where possible
14:03:11	 From Kelly Boothby : this is good for me in general
14:04:05	 From Stefan van der Walt : No life, don't worry.
14:04:08	 From Mridul Seth : +1
14:04:11	 From Kelly Boothby : :(
14:04:22	 From Kelly Boothby : I don't but my kid does
14:04:23	 From Stefan van der Walt : :)
14:10:25	 From Kelly Boothby : The decorator I wrote basically does all of this with a clean interface
14:10:49	 From Kelly Boothby : no pr yet, it's in an issue
14:11:08	 From Kelly Boothby : I wanted more of this conversation before I pulled the trigger
14:12:11	 From JARROD MILLMAN : https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/3036
14:13:30	 From Kelly Boothby : one possibly annoying suggestion: give length-1 tuples for isolated nodes?
14:14:15	 From Kelly Boothby : length=1
14:14:24	 From Kelly Boothby : (a,b), (c,)
14:14:49	 From Kelly Boothby : which makes handling it annoyingly edge-casey and add_edges_from will hate it
14:17:08	 From Kelly Boothby : Three issues: graph data, node data, edge data
14:17:25	 From Kelly Boothby : Some generators populate a name, for example
14:17:37	 From Kelly Boothby : https://github.com/dwavesystems/dwave_networkx/blob/master/dwave_networkx/generators/pegasus.py
14:17:52	 From Kelly Boothby : ^ this beast populates node data
14:18:23	 From Kelly Boothby : so I'm not really sure how to handle all of this stuff quite yet and if people have ideas, please contribute to the issue?
14:19:14	 From Kelly Boothby : I'm super busy with work for the next month or two but around mid-october I might have time for a solid PR
14:20:08	 From Kelly Boothby : awesome, thanks
14:22:12	 From Kelly Boothby : bye!
</details>