# NetworkX Developer Discussions:  October 22, 2020

In attendance: Mridul, Dan, Ross, Jarrod, Stefan

## Welcome and news

## Followup from last week

- CI updates
  * Disable pep8speaks bot now that linting action is activated?
  - Action item: Jarrod has disabled - keep eyes peeled for unexpected behavior

- Pydata global
  * Jarrod's talk
    * Done and submitted :tada:
    * Sprint advertised in talk - coordinate to make sure sprint comes *after* the talk
  * Any new info on panels or sprints?
    * No new info on panels/sprints yet

- Notebooks, examples, tutorials, etc.
  * PR open for converting existing notebooks to sphinx infrastructure
  * Sphinx page example: https://rossbar.github.io/notebooks-1/
  * There may be advantages to making connections between gallery and notebooks. 
  * Could arrange for images to be included in gallery that are created in the notebooks repo. Maybe use intersphinx for some of this.

- For gallery examples:
  * Make sure all examples are seeded for reproducibility
  
## Topics

- Where should we be applying for conferences? (That might translate to contributors?)
  * SIAM network science workshop (typically in July)   
  * SciPy conferences (main one also in July)
  * IC2S2 (Computational social science which has a lot of network scienc-y stuff, and they have a tutorial on introductory network science pretty much every year), maybe some other data(network) science academic conf.
    - Mridul mentions that these often have network science tutorials etc.
  * Other domain-specific conferences
  * Action item: find out when the deadlines for submissions are

- [Gene-gene example](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4269)
  * Given potential for long run-time, seems like a good candidate for
    a "simple" gallery example to produce a plot, and an extension in
    `networkx-tutorials` with more details, including multiple analyses
   
- A couple `sphinx-gallery` improvements
  * Configure to support mayavi (add mayavi to `examples.txt` in CI)
  * Add binder badges?
    - Nice to have for 2.6
  
- Tracking issue about missing algorithms from the package
  * Ping the mailing list to have users help us fill this out

- Make an effort to connect with D-wave's algorithms... at least make the API similar-or same.

## Discussion

- Other sprints
  * No explicit volunteers for scipy japan

- What to rename the `notebooks` repo to?
  * Shouldn't be `notebooks` because that implies source files have to be `.ipynb`
  * `tutorials` is probably too restrictive
  * maybe `guides`? or `Worked Examples`? 
  
- (Big) goals for 2.6
  * Deprecate `shp` file stuff
    - A pure-Python shp file library (`pyshp`)?
  * Get improved error message for slicing Node/EdgeViews (see NXEP2) in
  * Deprecation candidates
    * `pyyaml`
    * Search for `_iter`
    * Prioritize API changing PRs (don't want to do it all right before the release)
    * Union, compose, Euler path - testing is inadequate