# NetworkX Developer Discussions:  September 17th, 2020

In attendance: Jarrod, Dan, Eric, Ross, Mridul

## Topics

- Welcome and news 

- NXEP 2 (add slicing to \*View containers)
  * Ross' proposal - Try a staged approach. Seems there are some changes that would improve the situation (e.g. better error message, add `head` and/or `tail` method) without needing extensive API discussion. Consider moving NXEP 2 to "deferred" status to see if these changes are sufficient. If not, then re-open with a more serious discussion about the implications of mixing `dict`-like and `Sequence` semantics.
  * Decisions made:
      * Update error messages to tell people how to get first couple of nodes/edges.
      * Update `__repr__` (or `__str__`) of NodeView and EdgeView to reflect its status as a set (i.e. use `{}`.)
      * Add PR to NXEP2 to reflect that `.head()` and `.tail()` (ala unix, pandas, and R) might not necessarily be useful for `G.edges()`, because of the semantic overload of `.head()` and `.tail()`.
      * Update status of NXEP to deferred (???)

- EM: more code to look at? https://github.com/ericmjl/protein-interaction-network/blob/master/proteingraph/conversion.py
      * PR to put this code into the "convert" area of NX.

- pagerank is a good example of some code in NetworkX that could benefit from thinking about how to allow algorithms to work directly with a sparse array data structure instead of the dict-of-dict sparse structure.  https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/4207 SciPy sparse matrices as a backend?

Discussion came this far this week...

Topics not discussed
====================

- Code to look at:
  - IronPython code -- can we remove this?
    - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/1328
    - $ grep -r ironpython
networkx/classes/graph.py:            # while pre-2.7.5 ironpython throws on self._adj[n]
networkx/classes/digraph.py:            # while pre-2.7.5 ironpython throws on self._succ[n]

  - remove scikit.sparse dependency?
    - networkx/linalg/algebraicconnectivity.py

  - def _dijkstra_multisource()   
      Q: How much is combining all versions of dijkstra into one routine slowing it down? (I feel like the contributor march to remove repeated code has not paid attention to performance.)
      (multisource/source, pred, paths, weight function vs dict-lookup, weight None-> no edge, )
  - unweighted shortest_path might have similar issue, but I think it doesn't have as many options. 
  - pagerank, pagerank_numpy and pagerank_scipy don't talk about which to use much. Can we rename to prioritize the scipy version? Is there a faster method than power iteration in python to get the "largest" eigenvector?
  - cluster.py was written long ago and speed compares poorly with graphtool (global clustering is called transitivity in NX) probably because no one has looked at this in a while.
  - dag.py has some code that is really inefficient.
  - Find loops that use G.edges(n). That idiom could be replaced with a single call returning an Edgeview with lookup -- or use G.adj. Sometimes this idiom is used to avoid handling of edge keys in MultiGraph with code that also works for Graph. There should be a better way.
  - sparsifiers, planarity and simple_paths might be worth looking at for loop speed-ups.
  - k-core (core.py) shows as slow in graphtool comparison. Probably worth looking at.
  - similarity code is pretty new and lots of for loops. Probably worth looking at.
