# NetworkX Developer Discussions:  July 23, 2020

In attendance: Aric Hagberg, Jarrod Millman, Dan Schult, Ross Barnowski, Kelly Boothby, Camille Scott, Mridul Seth

## Items for discussion:

0. Pre-meeting discussions  (meta meeting)
  - Let's try hackmd!
  - Getting started with roadmapping/planning/work towards 3.0
  - Initial ideas for 3.0 cleanup
    * NumPy/SciPy dependencies
    * Py3K cleanup
    * Still some things left over from the 2.0 API design - revisit

1. Introductions...

2. How are people doing? Any items of the general workflow that we should improve/revise?
Sometimes I(Dan) feel like I "approve" a PR too soon -- earlier than I would merge it. Are we doing this correctly?
 - Don't be shy about assigning people (and rejecting assignments if you don't have bandwidth!)

3) I saw a github discussion about Ross' work converting numpy.matrix to numpy.array being good fodder for Eric's materials for sprints. That sounds cool... What kind of materials?
    - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/3107


4) We have our first NXEP (well technically it's numbered 0002). That's for Mridul's idea about slicing G.nodes and G.edges. What is it?  - G.nodes[2:5]             Or some other syntax to obtain a slice of the nodes as if they are a list.
How do we respond to NXEPs? What's involved? 
Can we split up the duties somewhat?

 - NXEP 2: Slicing views (Mridul's summary)
   * Motivation: oft-requested feature by users, convenience.
   * Non-intuitive interface ( `list(G.nodes)`) - need to look up the documentation for this
   * Item access for NodeViews and EdgeViews
     - API design important here
   * Common use case: trying to visualize a subset of the graph (`.head`/`.tail`)?
   * Python 3.6 -> dicts are ordered
   * Python 3 sequences have moved toward defaulting to iterators, consider moving that direction?

 - How do/will NXEP's work?
   * Goal is consensus via the PR/mailing list


5) Jarrod has put together some instructions for new developers. The build environments section currently describes venv and conda. 
Are there other environments we should describe? What do we use for our work?
    * `extras.txt` seems to include a now-unavailable-on-conda version of `gdal`, will ~~file issue~~ make note / push to Jarrod's PR:)

6) Possibly the next NXEP:  graph generators and ```create_using```
Some of the graph generator functions would be better
as generators of nodes and edges, or even just edges instead of Graph objects.
Other generators use the Graph data structure as part of the algorithm to 
build the graph. They more naturally return the graph than a list of edges.
Our current mechanism for changing the type of the graph created is the
keyword ```create_using```.  In discussions at #3036 we have talked about
how to reform the graph generator API to remove create_using and to make
a unified interface that could support the different kinds of generators.

- path_graph(4) -> nx.Graph with 4 nodes
- path_graph.nodes_and_edges(4)  -> list of nodes and list of edges
- path_graph.DiGraph(4)
- path_graph.Graph(4)
- path_graph.MultiGraph(4)
- path_graph.MultiDiGraph(4)
- path_graph.CustomGraph(<class>, 4)    # where <class> is a subclass of nx.Graph.
- path_graph.sparse_adjacency(4)
- path_graph.edge_list(4)                 # this is incomplete because isolated nodes can't be represented.

The core function of the generator could construct either a list of edges, a 2-tuple of (nodes, edges), or a nx.Graph (or subclass). Kelly has some nice example decorators that construct the generator object with just a decorated edge_list function or with a decorated Graph function.

 - At least two types of structures you'd like to be able to create - API for the format of the output (see above examples)
 - Lingering concern: all->all conversion
 - Look at scipy csgraph - how do they handle graph generators?
 - Continue the discussion on this topic

7) August is creeping toward us. We should start planning what changes might be in place for v3.0.
 - Roadmap doc in doc/developer
 - Everyone - keep your notes on what you like/dislike about API, ideas for improvements/changes?

## Additional discussion

 - [Network Analysis Made Simple](https://github.com/ericmjl/Network-Analysis-Made-Simple)
   * Book by Eric & Mridul - please check it out!
   * Make more prominent in the NX ecosystem
   * Concerns about licenses? Sharing? It is available for purchase...
     - Followup discussion forthcoming!
     
 - readthedocs' pull request build is out of beta as of relatively recently, would be nice to integrate (especially with NXEP's and potential for lots of incoming documentation changes): https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/autobuild-docs-for-pull-requests.html
     
 - Meeting meta:
   * Keep in mind how meeting formats might need to change/scale (hand-raising feature?)
   * Please share thoughts/concerns about meeting formats either publicly or privately (email Jarrod or Dan)
   
Adjourn.... :}                             
