# NetworkX Developer Discussions: September 9th, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Dan, Stefan, Kelly, Dimitrios, Vadim, Mridul, Ross

## Welcome and news

 - :tada: CZI grant officially announced :tada:
   * 2022-2023

## Important dates/deadlines

 - **09/15/2021** Reply to NumFOCUS about admin fees
 
### Action items
 - [ ] Triage rights for GSoC students (Jarrod)
 - [ ] Add completed GSoC projects to developer docs (Ross, Mridul)
 - [ ] Officially "publish" [NX-guides](http://networkx.org/nx-guides/) (Mridul)
 - [ ] Schedule Sebastian for 9/16 to share his experience with tidelift (Ross)
 - [x] Switch the "Approve and Run" settings for CI to "first-time contributors who are new to GH"
 - [ ] Start our 3-line namespace NXEP (Ross)

## Topics

- NX meeting calendar invite
  * Did everyone receive it? Who accidentally got left off the list?
  * Make recurring?
  * Other requests/ideas for improvements?
    * A public calendar?
    
- 2.6.3 release - see https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5072
  * Primary focus: fixes for modularity functions.
  * Include other patches, or wait til 2.7?
    
- namespace and lazyload plans
  * Discuss in more detail next week (move this up the list)
  
- Type annotations
  * Conversation has revived. How to handle

- Numfocus
  * Fiscal sponsorship rates
  * We've been contacted about support for "community health" and whether we have ideas for anything that numfocus can help support. Ideas?
    
## Discussion

- Greedy modularity fix: floating point problems with MappedQueue
  * Dan's fix: store the priority separately from the object that is added to the priority queue. This gets rid of the floating point problem as dict keys.
    - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5065
  * 10-20% performance reduction, but we can keep working onit for 2.7
  * Other modularity bugs: problem with related nodes
  * [`heapdict`](https://github.com/DanielStutzbach/heapdict) - would be an additional dependency, but this could speed things up

- Lazyloading
  * Stefan has/is putting it in `scikit-image`
  * We have the initial PR to use the similar lazy loading functionality: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4909
  * As part of the lazy loading discussion, we should discuss what level of hierarchy we want in the package namespaces
    * e.g. `bipartite` makes sense as a namespace: has function names that conflict with functions in the `nx` namespace
    * Three subpackages that need to be imported off the top of head:
      - `bipartite`
      - `community`
      - `approximation`
    * E.g. `approximation` subpackage is not imported in the main namespace, so you need to do a special import just to get access to the `approximation` namespace, which is cumbersome
  * A question has arisen in the past: why is the namespace flat? It would be good to add a discussion of this to the developer docs

  * How best to discuss this?
    - GH discussion? NXEP
    - Might be good to have a policy explicitly laid out in an NXEP
      * If there are name collisions, namespaces should be kept!

    - NXEP lines
      1. Name collisions - require namespaces
      2. subpackages should be available from the main namespace
      3. Algorithms for special structures (e.g. bipartite, DAG) should require namespace
  
  * What do other projects do?
    - Some background info on decision making: https://github.com/scientific-python/specs/pull/106 

 - Type annotations
   * Once concern: is there a canonical, "blessed" way of using type annotations?
     - https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ 
     - Here it is: https://github.com/python/typing/pull/889#issuecomment-915850292 
   * Aim for 3.0
   * Set up a separate typing meeting with fmagin & NeilGadrhar (sp)

NumFocus questions
 - Are all projects subject to the same overhead?
 - If there is a mismatch in terms of the overhead specified by the grant and the minimum required by Numfocus, what happens in that case
 - 