# NetworkX Developer Discussions: October 14th, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Mridul, Kelly, Dan, Stefan, Jarrod, Ross

## Welcome and news

- GitHub Sponsor this project enabled
    - https://github.com/networkx/networkx
    - Waiting to see if GitHub accepts are sponsorship application
    - NumFOCUS will add NX to the appropriate page

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX2.7 (12/31/21) and 3.0 (2/28/22)

## Topics

- CZI EOSS Meeting in November...  Any clarity on who (if anyone) is speaking?
  * Mridul with support from Jarrod?
  * Dan has responded that it seems like we won't be giving a talk, but haven't received any repsonse
  * It's not required for NX to give a talk
  * Mridul is happy to if we want to, but currently no plans

- CZI grant paperwork
  * emails being forwarded to all appropriate parties

- Ross & Mridul met w/ NumFOCUS last week
  * Nothing major to report:
    - Requested a page on the NumFOCUS site with a concise listing of fiscal sponsorship benefits
    - We were reminded about the potential for NumFOCUS small-developer grants - keep this in mind for project ideas
      * Max 2 per year. NX has supported `pydata-sphinx-theme` this year for one of the slots, but if e.g. one of the students has an idea/proposal - keep this in mind
    - Trademarks for NetworkX? Has that every been discussed before? NumFOCUS apparently can help with that if we're interested

- Adding static type checker to NetworkX development workflow.
  * Infrastructure for supporting type annotations (which has generated a lot of discussion in the past)
  * PR that adds the static type checker `mypy` **without any type annotations**: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5127

- https://discuss.scientific-python.org/ : Discourse forum (Python, Numba, Bokeh, Matplotlib use it) that can replace our mailing list.  Can be used via web or email.
  * WIP

- Quick show of the "reproduce env" for issues.(Mridul)
  * :heart: please make this public :)


- Drop Py 3.7, support 3.10
    - pypy?  wheels?
    - cleanup
      * `math.choose` - can get rid of NX's custom implementation
    - 3.8 allows position-only arguments?  Current thought is to make sure new functions use kw and pos only in some appropriate way. But it is difficult to go back and change older functions.

- scipy.sparse array API 
    - https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/14822
    - https://github.com/scipy/scipy/pull/14496

## Discussion

