# NetworkX Developer Discussions: December 9th, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:**

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX2.7 (1/31/22) and 3.0 (2/28/22)
- Scipy 1.8rc1: Expected 12/9 (relevant for sparse overhaul)

## Topics

- meeting meta: hackmd shenanigans
  * Hackmd pulled a fast one and now you have to pay for some features (e.g. document history). We now have a "scientific Python" team on hackmd that should restore these features, but I'm not sure whether documents created under that team are visible to everyone: Please see if everyone can access the following link: https://hackmd.io/vUJ8Qj2NSb6jJscYcTlW2g
  * If the above works for everyone, I'll move these notes to that document (and update the hackmd link in the calendar)

- Financial stuff
  * Check on P&L spreadsheet in NumFOCUS shared drive [name=Ross]
    * Still no word from NumFOCUS - will ping again this week
  * Tidelift followup [name=Dan] -- they have not been responding.
    * I got an email this week from Tidelift laying out their plans for 2022 in [a video](https://forum.tidelift.com/t/tidelifts-vision-for-maintainers-in-2022/513). basicllay, they are looking to support maintainers more globally than just by paying them. Reduce noise, stress and work toward options that could e.g. provide benefits etc.
    * No response on our request to become a lifter though...

- `scipy.sparse` adoption
  * Done with code changes - that part is ready for review (still need to look at docs etc.)
    * Will look at Dan's comments asap!
  * Returning sparse arrays is an API change: keep sparse matrices for 2.7 and add a `FutureWarning`, with full swap over to sparse array in 3.0?

- What to do about the `draw_<layout>` convenience functions in `nx_pylab`?
  * Opened a discussion topic: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/discussions/5220
  
- Documentation: switch from `nb2plots` to `myst-nb` to handle executable chunks in documentation?
  * "Executable chunks" == tutorial and introduction
  * Tested myst-nb in: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5221
  * Quick takeaways:
    - Requires executable files to be written in myst-markdown instead of rst (see diff)
    - Not quite ready on the LaTeX side (opened issue upstream)

- Test suite is failing on numpy rc (resolved) [name=Ross]
  * Likely related to FP stack overflow in NumPy - already fixed there (numpy/numpy#20405)
  * Regardless, fixed in NX by using array functionality instead of looping over scalars

- Lazy importing follow-up: do we want to try for 2.7?
    - [name=Dan] to follow up on PR.

- A neat repository of graphs that I learned about while reviewing [#5127](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5217): https://sparse.tamu.edu/. I'm sure some of you knew about this already, but sharing here because I thought it was cool!
  * A sparse matrix graph representation for every occasion :rocket: 

## Discussion