# NetworkX Developer Discussions: June 24th, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:**

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- CZI Grant
  * late JULY 2021 Earliest notification of decisions
  * SEPTEMBER 1, 2021 Earliest start date
  
- 2.6 release
  * rc2 released ()
  * Imminent(-ish) - Milestone 6/25
  * new cfn-lint released
      * https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cfn-lint/pull/2035
      * https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cfn-lint/releases/tag/v0.51.0
  
## Topics

  - GSOC checkin
  - 2.7 tasks ?
    * Add a "2.0 to 3.0" document to prepare for the next major release.
    * Will include topics like:
      - Using `_adj`
      - visualization policy
      - Graph generator approach (NXEP 3)
  
## Discussion

I am happy to announce the second **release candidate** for NetworkX 2.6!
This is release has a larger than normal number of changes in
preparation for the upcoming 3.0 release.
The current plan is to release 2.6 soon, 2.7 near the end of summer,
and 3.0 near the end of the year.

The focus of 3.0 release is on addressing years of technical debt and
making it easier to contribute.
The 2.6 release deprecates over 30 functions.
It also make major changes to our default dependencies.
We no longer depend on the "decorator" library.
More importantly, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas are now default
requirements.
While we've made these core libraries of the scientific Python ecosystem
default dependencies,
much of NetworkX still works without these libraries and we expect that to continue.
Be assured that we test NetworkX with and without the dependencies, so if you do **not** use functions that depend on external libraries 
you can install NetworkX using pip with the `--no-deps` flag.

<!--
python-announce-list.python.org

migration guide? (not yet...)

Thanks CZI?
-->

This release supports Python 3.7-3.9 and contains many new features.
It is the result of almost a year of work with over 300 pull requests
by over 80 contributors.
If you have code that imports networkx, please take some time
to check that you are able to update your code to work with the new release.

The draft 2.6 release announcement is here:
  https://networkx.org/documentation/latest/release/release_dev.html

Please try out the pre-release and let us know about any problems you find.

Since this is a pre-release, pip won't automatically install it.  So
  $ pip install networkx
will still install networkx-2.5.1.  But
  $ pip install --pre networkx
will install networkx-2.6rc2.  If you already have networkx installed
then you need to do
  $ pip install --pre --upgrade networkx

For more information, please visit our website
- http://networkx.org
and our gallery of examples
- https://networkx.org/documentation/latest/auto_examples/index.html

Best regards,
Jarrod
