# NetworkX Developer Discussions:  April 29th, 2021

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings)

**In attendance:**

- Ross, Eric, Jarrod, Dan, Kelly, Mridul

### GSoC

Primary mentor has to write mid-summer review. (This sounds like a form to fill in.)

We should probably have a kick-off meeting. The weekly NX meeting is probably the best place for this. Good to have name-to-face, which can help lubricate the review process.

Action items:

1. [ ] Everyone click on the students they want to mentor.


------

CI has failed again because of Cartopy.

Move geospatial examples out of gallery and into a notebook. Not important to run CI. Now that there are notebooks, we should put them there. Image teaser linked out to actual notebook --> this would be a good example.

Documentation: top-level "applications", one example underneath, with a "see more here" link added.

Decorators: nothing done this week. Can start hacking on backlog on Sunday.
Need to time imports for profiling.

`create_using`. B-A graph PR.

Deprecations: found another function that inputs a dictionary that has two keys with two values for each of those keys. Need to look for more of these. Came up because someone ran a code linter. Caught and fixed cytoscape one, there's another one in json_graph r/w.



------

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- CZI Grant
  * [x] APRIL 20, 2021 invitation to submit Full Applications
  * [ ] May 10, 2021 NumFOCUS proposal review
  * **MAY 19, 2021 Full Applications**
  * late JULY 2021 Earliest notification of decisions
  * SEPTEMBER 1, 2021 Earliest start date
  
- GSoC (currently have 8 applications)
  - [x] Student application deadline - April 13
  - [x] **NumFOCUS Deadline for projects to select applicants**: April 29th
  - Application review deadline - May 17
  - Coding period: June 7th - Aug. 23rd (flexible scheduling though)
  - [x] Create a doc for collecting student application reviews (Mridul)
    
- 2.6 release
  * End of May, 2021
  
- 3.0
  * After GSoC (~Sept. 2021)

## Topics

- GSoC application evaluations

- `decorator` discussion
  * rossbar didn't look at it this week

- NetworkX-metis release? https://github.com/networkx/networkx-metis/issues/74
  * Report from Jarrod
  
## Discussion