# NetworkX Developer Discussions: October 21st, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Dimitris, Dan, Jarrod, Stefan, Mridul, Kelly, Ross

## Welcome and news

- GitHub Sponsor this project enabled
  * Is this try-able? Should we try a donation and see if it goes through?
    - Need to customize the page and activate (via button click)
    - Should check with NumFOCUS to see if anything else needs to be set up on their side
  * Action items [name=Ross]
    - Contact Arliss
      * Check that the donate-to-networkx page is linked up to NX's bank account at numfocus
      * Update the logo on that page with one that has NetworkX in the name

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX2.7 (12/31/21) and 3.0 (2/28/22)

## Topics

- CZI grant paperwork updates?
  * Will check on things: leaving on here for next week to continue checking up

- CZI EOSS conference in two weeks (Nov. 2nd-4th)
  * Will forward CZI invite to networkx.groups.io

- Sprints?
  * PyData Global: sometime in the 10/28 - 10/30 window?
    - Not this time!
  * "Developer sprint" or pair programming or some other form of informal virtual work session?
    - +1 for this going forward, esp. once CZI starts!

- https://discuss.scientific-python.org/ : Discourse forum (Python, Numba, Bokeh, Matplotlib use it) that can replace our mailing list.  Can be used via web or email.
  * WIP
  * `scikit-image` making progress on migration?
  * Should we try to import existing mailing list discussions?

- Drop Py 3.7, support 3.10
    - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5143
    - pypy?  wheels?
    - cleanup
      * `math.choose`: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5141 PR: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5142
      * `math.dist` and `math.hypot`?

- scipy.sparse array API
  * Opened a PR to try out scipy/scipy#14822 in NX: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5139
  * If anyone else is interested in trying it out, you can set up an environment like so: `python -m pip install git+git://github.com/stefanv/scipy@sparse-ndarray-api`

## Discussion

- Function dispatch:
  * TODO: reach out to the GraphBLAS devs
  * Also Anaconda metagraph

- Scikit-image discourse
  * They have 3 lists: user forum, developer mailing list, and core mailing list
  * Have made these categories on discourse... will be transitioning soon
  * Will try without porting the entire mail archive over to discourse to start

- Add PyUpgrade to the development workflow? [name=Jarrod]