# NetworkX Developer Discussions: August 5th, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Matt, Mridul, Dan, Ross, Jarrod, Stefan

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

**NOTE:** non-public information re: grant info removed prior to archiving.

## Topics

- GSOC checkin
  * Matt: aTSP: Function is up! Fleshing out the test suite

- Recently some warnings were added to the documentation for potential security issues with built-in python libraries (like xml and cPickle). Are warnings in the doc_strings enough? Should we raise warnings instead? Perhaps we should place these functions behind a subpackage called `insecure` with namespace such that users have to do something like: `nx.insecure.read_pickle`
  - [#5001](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5001)

- We currently have 3 related decorators: random_state, np_random_state and py_random_state.  But only one of them appears in the documentation. Could we just simplify it to 2 functions: np_random_state and py_random_state?  Does this use the new NumPy random generator (https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/random/generator.html)
This should be done for NX 2.7.

- Better name for `directed_laplacian_matrix` since it is a scaled/normalized directed matrix. The function `laplacian_matrix` works for directed or undirected graphs to return the unscaled laplacian matrix. [#4993](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/4993)
This should be done for NX 2.7.

- Lots of activity surrounding `greedy_modularity_communities`
  * Implementation has floating-point comparison problem built in. Can we work around it? [#5000](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5000) 

- From last week?
  - 2.6 Release
    * Followup: Handling dependencies & release post-yank

  - basic graph in standard library
      - https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonGraphApi
      - http://www.linux.it/~della/GraphABC/
  
## Discussion

End-of-summer schedule:
 - A few more potential trips from ppl for the last 2-3 weeks of August. Revisit meeting schedule for the start of Fall (current meeting time seems okay preliminarily)
   * Update meeting invite @ current time to run over fall semester

Security issues:
 - Switch to [defusedxml]? Issue 5001 [https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5001]
 - Similar to yaml issue? Just an insecure flag/loader?
   * Seems like it's more than a flag - Python recommends a different library
 - Gpickle will go away because it's deprecated
 - xml: underlies GEXF and GraphML, so will be around
 - Do we need an additional security warning or namespace?
   * Current feeling is no: Python itself doesn't do this for the builtin xml parser

Random_state decorators:
 - let's aim to reduce to the two decorators for 2.7
 - Add support for `numpy.random.Generator` interface too (separate issue)
   * Can think about switching the default from `RandomState` for NX 3.0 (Generator is not backward-compatible with RandomState)

`directed_laplacian`:
  - Definitely remove the `not_implemented_for` on `laplacian_matrix` - shouldn't be restricted
  - The name of `directed_laplacian_matrix` is problematic because `directed` doesn't mean "directed graph", which is obviously confusing.
  - The normal Laplacian: what is it typically? out-degree - adjacency. But sometime in-degree?
    * Takeaway: it would be really nice to review all NX linalg stuff
    * Maybe aim for 2.7 (review during September)

 - Greedy-modularity-communities
   * Re-mapping issue: reported independently twice, but fixed
   * Floating-point issue: Dan has commented, might be a way to rework so that data is not floating point (if user uses integer weights)
   * Also question of `MappedQueue` - looks like it's only used in greedy_modularity_communities
     - Can this be reformulated to use Python builtins (e.g. heapq) instead of custom interface? Investigate? Potentially deprecate MappedQueue?

 - Graphs in the std lib
   * would help NX in that: some users just want basic graph/CS algorithms (path finding) and others want higher-level analysis (e.g. aTSP). Std-lib would potentially pull 1st group of users away (good? Bad?)
   * GVR on graphs: https://www.python.org/doc/essays/graphs/ 
   * snap.stanford.edu/class/cs224w-2014/projects2014/cs224w-78-final.pdf
