# NetworkX Developer Discussions: October 28th, 2021
Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/master/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Kelly, Dimitris, Mridul, Jarrod, Stefan, Ross

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX2.7 (12/31/21) and 3.0 (2/28/22)

## Topics

- CZI grant paperwork updates?
  * Will check on things: leaving on here for next week to continue checking up

- GitHub Sponsor this project enabled
  * Action items [name=Ross]
    - Forgot to do this, will today!
    - Contact Arliss
      * Check that the donate-to-networkx page is linked up to NX's bank account at numfocus
      * Update the logo on that page with one that has NetworkX in the name
- CZI EOSS conference in two weeks (Nov. 2nd-4th)
  * Will forward CZI invite to networkx.groups.io

- https://discuss.scientific-python.org/ : Discourse forum (Python, Numba, Bokeh, Matplotlib use it) that can replace our mailing list.  Can be used via web or email.
  * skimage's transition complete - let's see what the feedback is.

- Drop Py 3.7, support 3.10
  * Obvious 3.7 cleanup done, 3.10 started
  * Tracking issue for other 3.10 support: 
  
- `pyupgrade` pre-commit hook has been added (thanks Jarrod)
  * Make sure to `pip install -r requirements/developer.txt`!

- Issue with pydot tests
  * Our pydot test suite broke yesterday. Jarrod chased it down to a versioning issue with `pyparsing`, which is a dependency of `pydot`: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5155
  * Temporary fix: add an explicit `pyparsing` pin to `requirements/extras.txt`. Need to remove once this is fixed upstream.


- Refactor `node_classification` package into a module?
  * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/tree/main/networkx/algorithms/node_classification
  * Currently has two (IMO, unclearly-named) modules `hmn.py` and `lgc.py` which each define a single function.
  * After recent refactor, the `utils.py` module has been reduced to one private function.
  * All three of these modules could easily be condensed into a single module `node_classification.py` that would only require deprecating the


## Discussion

- NumFOCUS/CZI Sponsored-project meeting
  * Main discussion point: how to sign up as a contractor

- Should we add a link to NEP29 / SPEC 0 about the Python minor version support policy?
  * Maybe to the developer docs? Contributing.md? Install page? [name=Jarrod]
  * End of contributor doc, add a "policies" section?
  * See what other projects are doing re: linking to NEP29 policy