# NetworkX Developer Discussions: April 15th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Dan, Mridul, Kelly, Matt, Ross

## Welcome and news

- NetworkX tutorial selected for scipy 2022! :tada: (Mridul)
- NetworkX tutorial at PyCon 2022 :tada: (Eric)
- NetworkX 2.8 Released! :tada:
- Networkx has a twitter now: https://twitter.com/networkx_team

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX 3.0 (5/31/22)

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
TODO: Update zoom link
  - Want everyone to be able to share screen
  - Move away from berkeley-link

## Topics

- Bugs/regressions in 2.8
  * `not_implemented_for` on generators
  * `greedy_modularity_communities` for disconnected graphs
  * [name=rossbar] milestone these & discuss/decide if we need a 2.8.1

- Outreachy and GSoC
  * Updates, deadlines, & reviews.
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
  * What's next
    - Outreachy:
      * Students will have to submit application by 4/22
    - GSoC:
      * Applications close next Monday or Tuesday

- Removing deprecations from 2.8 -> 3.0
  * Wait a couple weeks then sprint on it?
  * 1 PR/removal is a good idea in case something needs to be reverted!
  * Sprint at/around PyCon time?

- Job postings via mailing list
   * [name=rossbar] Find & copy over numpy's policy for discussion
     * [NumPy's "policy"](https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/numpy-discussion.python.org/):
     > Offers of employment are welcome only if they include a commitment to open-source contributions as part of employment.
   * Open a topic on discuss.scientific-python.org?

- networkx.guide
  * Wait and see what the response is on the mailing list - follow up next week
   
- Outreachy + GSoC = more eyes on code = more issues!
  * [name=Kelly] [#5520](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5520)Delayed `not_implemented_for` exceptions for generators
    * Ready for review!
  * [name=Dan] [#5530](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5530) 2.8 changed behavior: `greed_modularity_communities` + disconnected graphs
  * [name=Ross] [#5538](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5538) Duplicate edges in `min_edge_cover`
  * [name=Dan] [#5486](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5486) `has_bridges` has a `root` argument but doesn't raise when `root` not in `G`
  * [name=Ross] [#5514](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5514#issuecomment-1097015394) Handling of undirected edges with `arrows=True` is different than what was proposed in linked issue. At issue: `nx.draw_networkx_edges(G, pos, arrows=True)`
    - Previously: drew one-directional arrowheads (wrong)
    - Now: draws edges without arrowheads (arguably better, but confusing in the context of `arrows=True`)
    - Proposed: draws edges with arrowheads on both ends
    - New proposal: Warn when `arrows=True` *and* `arrowstyle` is not specified with undirected graphs.

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: 
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

## Long-term tracking items

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this


## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org
