# NetworkX Developer Discussions: December 13th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Sultan, Dan, Paula, Mridul, Ross, Jim

## Welcome and news

- FOR NEXT WEEK: Bring your roadmap ideas!
- TODO: Schedule new meeting time for next semester
  * [name=rossbar] Put together whenisgood

- NetworkX 3b1 released this week
- Welcome Paula :tada: 

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX 3.0 release:
  * ~~NX 3b1 (10/12/22)~~
  * ~~NX 3rc1 (11/10/22)~~
  * NX 3 (11/30/22)
- Outreachy
  * Program dates: Dec. 1st - End of Feb.

## Topics

- Surveys
  * Should get the NX survey out: already done, maybe post 3.0?
  * Also check out Matt's scientific Python survey: https://discuss.scientific-python.org/t/quick-survey-of-the-scientific-python-community/604

- Vf2pp: incorrect result for MultiDiGraph example
  * There are a number of places where there are MultiGraph checks, but they're only looking at self-loops and not multi-edges. Good place to start investigating
  * 4-node example is nice - easy reproducer
  * Note: only problem for MultiDiGraph - MultiGraph by itself is fine, same with DiGraph.
  * General consensus: let's go ahead and release with the bug for 3.0 (getting 3.0 out is more important, this shouldn't be a blocker)
  * :tada: :tada: Fixed! :tada: :tada: 

- NetworkX best-practices:
  * When calling degree or subgraph (or any view object), where you are accessing the resulting view repeatedly, you may want to explicitly create a dict for performance reasons (tradeoff between call overhead vs. memory requirements)
    - Specifically, the reporting views that have an extra lookup (subgraph, degree)
  * Flexibility of e.g. `nbunch`
  * Also: generators - when to create containers, when to use generators directly

- Let's get some eyes on the LaTeX drawing PR: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6238


- Can we get a trademark (Jupyter/Numpy have trademarks right?)? Does it fix things like networkx.guide ?

- Let's make it easier to get from the home page to the documentation...  and maybe better links to the various types of documentation (guides/tutorials/reference)?
  * Think about adopting the scientific-python-hugo-theme for networkx.org?

- Keyword-only and maybe position-only input. Candidate subpackage to start changing code to keyword-only is the nx_pylab. (see [SLEP009](https://scikit-learn-enhancement-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/slep009/proposal.html) for how sklearn did this)

- maybe put type stubs in after 3.0

- helpful to have a place for best-practices like nbunch, view vs dict, subgraph vs subgraph.copy()


## Long-term tracking items

- We should try to automate the release process as much as possible so that we could remove a human from the release process. conda-forge has a very automated release system. Would a SPEC covering automated releases be reasonable?
    - Not clear what the advanatges of automating the release process would be. The process is [documented](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/release.rst) What would make this better?
    - Why would automating things further not cause problems?

- Post NX 3 release: A roadmap review.
  - better work with other packages. pygraphviz needs wheels -- getting there (JM wants this before the NX 3 release)
  - GraphBLAS
  - We should have a "roadmap meeting" 
  - parallel backends? its different from backends, but maybe similar?
  - Other ideas
    - GraphBLAS in the performance section
    - Temporal networks, hypergraphs, other new graph types?
    - Make testing more comprehensive -- mixed node types, hashable nodes, etc. (hypothesis?)
    - Benchmarking suites to at least run locally some timing.
  
- Review public interface: For v4.0 we should be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- LaTeX interface
   - #5702 has two interfaces: TikZ and adigraph. The adigraph takes values for 3 node attributes like `G.nodes[2]["width"]=3`, while the TikZ version needs values to be strings like "[width=3]" for lots and lots of parameters allowed by TikZ.
   - Do we want two interfaces? what should the interface be? [Answer: we want a single interface if possible and its OK to make the user learn a little TikZ in order to use it effectively.]

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Now raise UserWarnings when users request features that are not available for the underlying edge-viz object (e.g. LineCollection)
    - Is there a better, more wholistic solution?
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release -- We'll keep it for v3.0 and then look at removing it after that.
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - ~~(Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?~~
      - deprecated code removed

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.

## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org