# NetworkX Developer Discussions: November 1st, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Dan, Mridul, Ross, Matt

## Welcome and news

- NetworkX 3b1 released this week

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX 3.0 release:
  * ~~NX 3b1 (10/12/22)~~
  * NX 3rc1 (11/10/22)
  * NX 3 (11/30/22)
- Outreachy
  * Program dates: Dec. 1st - End of Feb.
  * **Evaluations due next week**

## Topics

- vf2pp - monomorphism & subgraph isomorphism
  * ping Konstantinos re: the existing branches, then figure out how best to push forward

- Beta is out
  * Any feedback from downstream?
  * Problem on conda-forge due to scipy being an "unconstrained dependency" in the recipe - can be updated to constrained to disallow NX>2.8
    - Will handle the issue on the conda-forge feedstock

- TODO: Before rc1, merge dispatch PR

- NetworkX 2.8.8 release soon (maybe Nov 1 or so?)- official support for 3.11
  * Biggest thing: official Python 3.11 support - any other things we want backported? Milestone them ASAP!

- Missed a couple expired deprecations - should all be in now
  * bipartite.project
  * find_cores
  * max_cardinality arg

- Outreachy
  * Review of applicants over the next week

- TODOs for 3.0:
  - [x] Review expired deprecations
  - [ ] Make sure dispatching mechanism is in: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6000
  - [ ] A quick `grep` survey review of `TODO`, `FIXME`, etc.
  - [ ] Double check vf2pp API (kwarg names, consistency between 3 public fns)
  - [ ] Update release notes
  - [x] Improve drawing interface (see below): raise warnings when using FancyArrowPatch kwargs w/out FAPs


- Perhaps could use another set of eyes:
    - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6144
    - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6143
 
## Long-term tracking items

- We should try to automate the release process as much as possible so that we could remove a human from the release process. conda-forge has a very automated release system. Would a SPEC covering automated releases be reasonable?
    - Not clear what the advanatges of automating the release process would be. The process is [documented](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/release.rst) What would make this better?
    - Why would automating things further not cause problems?

- Post NX 3 release: A roadmap review.
  - better work with other packages. pygraphviz needs wheels -- getting there (JM wants this before the NX 3 release)
  - GraphBLAS
  - We should have a "roadmap meeting" 
  - parallel backends? its different from backends, but maybe similar?
  - Other ideas
    - GraphBLAS in the performance section
    - Temporal networks, hypergraphs, other new graph types?
    - Make testing more comprehensive -- mixed node types, hashable nodes, etc. (hypothesis?)
    - Benchmarking suites to at least run locally some timing.
  
- Review public interface: For v4.0 we should be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- LaTeX interface
   - #5702 has two interfaces: TikZ and adigraph. The adigraph takes values for 3 node attributes like `G.nodes[2]["width"]=3`, while the TikZ version needs values to be strings like "[width=3]" for lots and lots of parameters allowed by TikZ.
   - Do we want two interfaces? what should the interface be? [Answer: we want a single interface if possible and its OK to make the user learn a little TikZ in order to use it effectively.]

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Now raise UserWarnings when users request features that are not available for the underlying edge-viz object (e.g. LineCollection)
    - Is there a better, more wholistic solution?
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release -- We'll keep it for v3.0 and then look at removing it after that.
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - ~~(Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?~~
      - deprecated code removed

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.

- [name=MridulS] I signed up on Tidelift to test it again, they have replied with a link to the [lifter agreement](https://support.tidelift.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406309657876-Lifter-agreement) and asked me if there are any issues with this. I will reach out again if there are no issues about this.
  * Hoops:
    * Prove Mridul is a maintainer
    * Review/sign the lifter agreement
  * The way we think this works:
    - We have a release on the conda-forge channel as well as PyPI - different income for the two
      * Depends on how tidelift's clients use these
  * Dan and/or Mridul will sign the agreement
  * [ ] Jarrod will create networkx-security@discuss.scientific-python.org with Ross, Dan, and Mridul as members


## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org
