# NetworkX Developer Discussions: June 2nd, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Matt, Ross, Kelly, Dilara, Mridul, Dan, Konstantinos

## Welcome and news

- Welcome again to the GSOC and Outreachy Interns! :tada: :tada:

  - Dilara Tekinoglu (Outreachy)
  - Konstantinos Petridis (GSOC)

- NetworkX Tutorial at PyCon IT this weekend :tada: 

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX 2.8.1 (5/18/22)
- NX 2.8.2 (5/27/22)
- NX 3.0 (6/30/22)

## Follow-up from last week

- New Meeting Time:  Thursdays at 10am PDT (17:00 GMT)
  * this is the meeting time for the summer (revisit in the Fall)

- NX User Survey
  * Needs :eyes: - please take a look

- NX 2.8.3 [name=Jarrod]
  * Bugfixes:
    - More graceful errors for pydot is the big motivator
  * Other potential improvements
    - Latex and isort PRs.
    - Still need some API decision making for LaTeX
      * Stick with Latex for 3.0

- GraphBLAS backend https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5669
   - [python-graphblas](https://github.com/python-graphblas/python-graphblas)
   - Mridul met with Eric and Jim
     * Discussion points: Mridul pushing for maintaining an API that exactly matches NX's API, when the input graph is a NetworkX Graph
       * Also important for the future, i.e. dispatching
     * Hopefully get Dimitris involved as well. Ongoing graphblas meetings? TBD

- pytest randomly
  - Mridul is working on this, will ping when it's in a good state!

- Types (sprints/discussions)
    - After 3.0, maybe during SciPy?
    
## Topics

- Quick GSoC/Outreachy catchup - are there any tasks that require immediate attention?
  * Blog posts? Other week 1/2 deliverables?

- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.
    - Another one: configure CI to stop running tests from a previous commit when a new commit is pushed up (I think scipy does this, so can copy their config)

- Evaluating robustness of NX algorithms for graphs with mixed node types - potential project idea
  * We occasionally get error reports about functions that assume graphs have nodes of homogeneous type (usually int) - see e.g. https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5681
  * Could be nice to add simple test case for most/all functions for this, e.g. a graph with mixed int/str nodes.

- How best to keep class/method/attribute docstrings consistent between inherited classes? https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5584

- [name=rossbar] Functions that wrap Graph class methods (`nx.nodes`, `nx.edges`, etc.) - how best to document?  (note by dan: nodes and edges are class attributes that also provide a function interface. So G.nodes and G.nodes() both work. Is this the source of the documentation issue? Will it be a problem for typing?)
  * Why are the funtions there? Because some users are functional programmers.

- Export property-checking functions (`nx.is_`) to top-level name space?
  * Example with `is_tournament`: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5542

## Long-term tracking items

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
TODO: Update zoom link
  - Want everyone to be able to share screen by default
  - Move away from berkeley-link