# NetworkX Developer Discussions: July 7th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Juanita, Kelly, Dimitrios, Ross, Matt, Mridul, Konstantinos, Dilara, Dan

## Welcome and news


## Important dates/deadlines

- Tentative NX 3.0 plans - later this summer, likely not before the scipy conference
- Post NX 3 release: A roadmap review
- CZI round 4 - first report due 08/01/2022 [name=MridulS]
  * Mridul will work on the report, Dan to upload
- EuroSciPy (Basel Switzerland) - NX sprint application is in - 2nd Sept 2022
  * NX + scikit-learn are confirmed for sprints! :tada: 
  
## Followup from last week

- cached_property vs property: The switch to cached_property seems to have slowed a couple of operations such as `copy`.  What operations get slow? Is it due to the `hasattr` check in ``__init__`` or the cached_property decorator?
  * Currently has the 2.8.5 milestone - let's try to chase down
  - There seems to be a nice way to get the speed back (i.e. `property` and `cached_property` the same perfromance) by removing `hasattrs`
    - Still needs some local testing to chase down failing case (MultiDiGraph inheriting from MultiGraph)
  * Do we even need to worry about the regression? It mostly affects `copy` and is really only pronounced for empty/small (not many nodes/edges) graphs.
    - Better benchmarking? Could give a better idea of what the real costs are
  * Top regressions:
    - `copy`, `to_directed`, graph creation: https://mriduls.com/nx-asv-benchmarks/#regressions?sort=3&dir=desc

## Topics

- Recap on `adj`:
  * Creating the view every time (i.e. via property) can be expensive due to view creation
    - This was the case up until ~1 month ago
  * One solution to this is to used `cached_property`
    - This was added recently. The difficulty here is that the cache doesn't necessarily update frequently - might require intervention (i.e. delete the cached object on access)
      * This is fraught; i.e. cache getting out of sync with the true adjacency e.g. if users override the `_adj` property
    - A different way to fix this: every time you set `adj`, reset the cache
      * `__setattr__`
      * Use a setter (with a property) - this is slower
      * Maybe a data descriptor instead of an explicit property
  

- [name=dschult] retworkx has asked whether their name is too close to networkx.  They chose the name by putting Rust and NetworkX together.  RetworkX is clearly different from NetworkX. But retworkx and networkx look very similar.

  * Discussion:
    - RetworkX = rust + networkx
    - Concern in name similarity: it almost looks the same - easy to miss the one letter difference in all lower-case
    - not to name people's projects for them... but rustworkx is a (subjectively) better name ;)
    - rossbar's comment: if the API's are different, this might be a pain for users (the name similarity is a strong implication that the libraries are related)

- [name=MridulS] I signed up on Tidelift to test it again, they have replied with a link to the [lifter agreement](https://support.tidelift.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406309657876-Lifter-agreement) and asked me if there are any issues with this. I will reach out again if there are no issues about this.
  * Hoops:
    * Prove Mridul is a maintainer
    * Review/sign the lifter agreement
  * The way we think this works:
    - We have a release on the conda-forge channel as well as PyPI - different income for the two
      * Depends on how tidelift's clients use these
  * Dan and/or Mridul will sign the agreement

- Remaining deprecation sprint cleanup
    - A quick sprint at SciPy?


- [name=MridulS] Archiving/putting a "not maintained" notice in the README of https://github.com/networkx/networkx-metis and https://github.com/networkx/networkx-lemon.
    - Added a notice: https://github.com/networkx/networkx-metis#readme feel free to edit this.
    - Archive `lemon` - needs to be an org owner (Dan/Jarrod)

- [name=Dimitris] Louvain Formula is ready for review, fixed infinite loops bug!
  * :tada: 
  * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5713

- `root` argument of `bridges` and `chain_decomposition` appears to be broken; see Juanita's PR: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5846
  * NodeNotFound check should live in `chain_decomposition` - will fix `chain_decomposition` and `bridges` all at once
  * Action item: [rossbar] - check test suite

- [name=MridulS] [Sync up behavior of is_{type} for empty graphs](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5849), currently we have multiple possible answers. We should try to get this behaviour uniform.

- Should we keep a 2.8 available?
  * E.g. some libraries that can't immediately update
  * For example, still releasing 1.X series after 2.0 came out (for a few months)
  * Is sparse arrays the only thing that requires the scipy 1.8
  * Strong support for backporting
  * Discuss further next week

## Long-term tracking items

- Review public interface: For v3.0 should we be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- LaTeX interface
   - we could think of writing this to work with TikZ rather than adigraph
   - we could add checkson the images generated to the release process for any release candidates

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Looking at the Roadmap - what do we want on there?
  * Some ideas:
    - GraphBLAS in the performance section
    - Temporal networks, hypergraphs, other new graph types?
    - Make testing more comprehensive -- mixed node types, hashable nodes, etc. (hypothesis?)
    - Benchmarking suites to at least run locally some timing.

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - (Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.
    - Another one: configure CI to stop running tests from a previous commit when a new commit is pushed up (I think scipy does this, so can copy their config)

## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
