# NetworkX Developer Discussions: February 25th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Matt, Ross, Mridul, Dan, Jarrod

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX2.7 (2/28/22) and 3.0 (5/31/22)

## News

- internal list change: networkx@group.io -> networkx-core@discuss.scientific-python.org
- NX 2.7rc1 is out!

## Follow-up from last week

## Topics

- [name=Mridul] Submit applications for Outreachy and GSoC.
    - Started the applications for both.
    - Current mentor roster: Dan, Ross, Mridul
    - We shouldn't aim for more than 1.5x student to mentor ratio.
        - One slot for Outreachy
        - 1-2 for GSoC
        - (this is assuming we get in)
    - Project ideas:
      * New layouts
      * Other graph polynomials
  - **NOTE**: Mentored project list should remain static during GSoC evaluation period. i.e. - don't add new projects until early March

- Mridul met with Aurora Clark re: the IMSI tutorial
  * 90 min: first 45 min: basic NX stuff, last 45 minutes: case study with chemistry datasets
    - Shortest path, community detection, clustering

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good

- [name=Mridul] Respond to https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5326 ( nx.info )
  - [x] [name=Jarrod] Idea: deprecate `nx.info`, which is now redundant given `Graph.__str__
      * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5341
  * Add a new method `Graph.describe` for more detailed info
    - name `describe` borrowed from pd.DataFrame API

- Improve installation instructions/workflow: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5355
  * Should we improve/add `conda` support?
  * [name=Jarrod] Action item(s):
    - Remove pytest-mpl from dependencies (for now) - remove pypy re

- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * Let's revisit after 2.7 release

- NXEP 4 draft up: switching the default random number generator
  * Very rough draft
  * The fundamental question: is a more performant, "better behaved" default worth breaking stream compatibility (i.e. different random result between NX 2 and NX 3)
  * Note: it's now possible (or will be in 2.7) to use `np.random.Generator` *now*, but it requires passing in the rng instance, e.g.:
    ```python
    pos = nx.spring_layout(G, seed=np.random.default_rng(12345))
    ```

## Discussion
