# NetworkX Developer Discussions: May 6th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Ross, Kelly, Dan, Matt, Mridul, Jarrod

## Welcome and news



## Important dates/deadlines

- **05/04/2022** Outreachy/GSoC reviews due
- NX 3.0 (5/31/22)

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
TODO: Update zoom link
  - Want everyone to be able to share screen by default
  - Move away from berkeley-link

## Topics

- NX 2.8.1 [name=Jarrod]
    - Once released, sprint on removing deprecations.
    - rc for a short time
    - 16th May Release

- Outreachy & GSoC
    - Contributor lists submitted

- PyCon 2022 catchup (if anyone who's attending is around)
  * How was the NetworkX tutorial?
  * Any positive interactions with users/contributors/potential contributors?
  * Fun exciting applications/related projects?
  * python-graphblas interface

- Bugs/regressions in 2.8
  * Now [labeled](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pulls?q=is%3Apr+milestone%3Anetworkx-2.8.1+)
  * General feeling: do we need a 2.8.1 or content to wait?

- networkx.guide
  * Wait and see what the response is on the mailing list - follow up next week

- [Triadic_census](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5557), nodelist parameter currently doesn't work. We can remove the nodelist parameter (it's a bug!) and maybe also raise a warning for now(?).


- [Lowest Common Ancenstor](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5547) doesn't work for all corner cases (it works fine for trees). The suggestions in the issue doesn't work for a general DAG, it's only for a tree.

- Create a tracking issue where we have some bits of code/algorithm where we don't follow the reference citied, but our code still works (no counter example of a bug in the implementation has been presented yet). Example is the lowest_common_ancestor implementation.

- How best to keep class/method/attribute docstrings consistent between inherited classes? https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5584

- Functions that wrap Graph class methods (`nx.nodes`, `nx.edges`, etc.) - how best to document?


## Long-term tracking items

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good

- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org
