# NetworkX Developer Discussions: January 14th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Dimitris, Matt, Ross, Mridul, Dan, Jarrod

## Welcome and news

 - Welcome back everybody :snowflake: :tada: 

## Important dates/deadlines

- Pygraphviz 1.8 (1/17)
- NX2.7 (1/31/22) and 3.0 (2/28/22)

## News

- NetworkX weekly dev meetings have now moved to Fridays 17:30 GMT. 

## Topics

- Invitation from Aurora Clark (Wash. St. Univ.) to a workshop entitled “The Mathematics of Soft Matter” (by IMSI). This workshop is bringing mathematicians, chemists and materials scientists to discuss the challenges, tools and opportunities for better integrating methods like graph theory and topological data analysis to study soft matter systems.

  It includes a software training session where 3-4 different code developer teams give 1-2 hour presentations that go over the capabilities and some use cases of their codes. This would be the week of Feb 28 – March 4, but is tentatively set for the morning of Feb 29.  
  - Email has been forwarded to groups.io
  - Think about participating in this: what do they want? What will the audience be?
    - Followup with organizers [name=mridul,jarrod]
  

- hackmd: add NX team to Scientific Python team on hackmd [name=Stefan,Jarrod]

- Financial stuff
  * Check on P&L spreadsheet in NumFOCUS shared drive [name=Ross]
    * Still no info about the GH donations - will ping in January
  * Tidelift followup [name=Dan] -- they have not been responding.
    * No response on our request to become a lifter though...


  
- Lazy importing follow-up: do we want to try for 2.7?
    - [name=Dan] to follow up on PR.
        - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4909
        - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5242
    - Side note - lazy loading (at least a limited implementation) made it into `main` on scipy! (Thanks Stefan)
      * Leads to a *lot* of potential simplifications for our `scipy` imports


- Scipy 1.8 has added user warnings to `lobpcg` when the iterations terminate before the desired tolerance is reached. I'm inclined to just silence them (scipy does this in its own test suite) but wanted to bring it up here in case someone wanted to take a closer look at `lobpcg` in `algebraicconnectivity` [name=Ross]

- [name=Mridul] CZI grant Q1 2022 goals/plans.

- Refactoring `to_numpy_array`: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5250
  * A new implementation that complete decouples edge processing from numpy array insertion
    - Allows full-fledged dtype support (e.g. complex weights, which was the motivating use-case raised by user `adeak`)
      * This includes structured dtypes! Could investigate deprecating `to_numpy_recarray`...
    - Enables arbitrary reduction functions for `multiweight_edges`
      * Currently, only (`sum`, `min`, and `max` are explicitly allowed)
      * functions like `mean` or `median` didn't used to work because array was updated by weights iteratively (they do now)
    - Downside: about 50% slower for large, dense (worst case == complete) graphs; (however, new implementation is faster than old for sparser graphs)
  * Question: are these tradeoffs reasonable?

- Scipy sparse adoption [name=Ross]
  * Outstanding question: what to do about user-facing interfaces (i.e. to/from_scipy_sparse)
  * Current idea:
    1. Add two new functions `to_scipy_sparse_array` and `from_scipy_sparse_array`
    2. Use `to_scipy_sparse_array` internally for all graph->scipy conversions
    3. Add `FutureWarnings` to `to_scipy_sparse_matrix` and `from_scipy_sparse_matrix` to indicate that the corresponding `_array` functions are preferred
       - Could make this a DeprecationWarning?

- `nx-guides`
  * I went ahead and made the Harshal's renaming Dinitz notebook executable. Can someone take a look? I can make it a PR to his branch to make it easer to review, just LMK! 

- [name=Mridul] A PoC of a multi dispatch API system

- Harmonic "diameter"/centrality
    - https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5251

## Discussion