# NetworkX Developer Discussions: June 30th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Dan, Mridul, Matt, Ross, Kelly, Dilara, Juanita, Dimitrios, Konstantinos

## Welcome and news


## Important dates/deadlines

- Tentative NX 3.0 plans - later this summer, likely not before the scipy conference
- Post NX 3 release: A roadmap review
- CZI round 4 - first report due 08/01/2022 [name=MridulS]
  * Mridul will work on the report, Dan to upload
- EuroSciPy (Basel Switzerland) - NX sprint application is in - 2nd Sept 2022
  * NX + scikit-learn are confirmed for sprints! :tada: 
  
## Followup from last week

- cached_property vs property: The switch to cached_property seems to have slowed a couple of operations such as `copy`.  What operations get slow? Is it due to the `hasattr` check in ``__init__`` or the cached_property decorator?
  * Currently has the 2.8.5 milestone - let's try to chase down
  - There seems to be a nice way to get the speed back (i.e. `property` and `cached_property` the same perfromance) by removing `hasattrs`
    - Still needs some local testing to chase down failing case (MultiDiGraph inheriting from MultiGraph)
  * Do we even need to worry about the regression? It mostly affects `copy` and is really only pronounced for empty/small (not many nodes/edges) graphs.
    - Better benchmarking? Could give a better idea of what the real costs are
  * Top regressions:
    - `copy`, `to_directed`, graph creation: https://mriduls.com/nx-asv-benchmarks/#regressions?sort=3&dir=desc

## Topics

- Remaining deprecation sprint cleanup

- Should we keep a 2.8 available?
  * E.g. some libraries that can't immediately update
  * For example, still releasing 1.X series after 2.0 came out (for a few months)
  * Is sparse arrays the only thing that requires the scipy 1.8
  * Strong support for backporting
  * Discuss further next week

- [name=rossbar] Issue label cleanup
  * I removed the unused `Work in Progress` label, as we can use draft PRs for that
  * Added a "discussion" label for **issues** that are more aboud decision-making than something that needs an immediate PR. For example, whether to include `import networkx as nx` in all the docstring examples, or deprecating pydot
    - In principle we could just make these actual github discussions, but issues have some additional nice features (namely the ability to close and pin) that discussions don't
  * Added a "pydot" label since we've had a recent uptick in pydot issues
  * Added an "LCA" label - since Dilara is working on this, I thought it might be nice to have a quick link to all the outstanding LCA issues

- [name=MridulS] Archiving/putting a "not maintained" notice in the README of https://github.com/networkx/networkx-metis and https://github.com/networkx/networkx-lemon.
    - METIS has a bunch of open issues, it doesn't even seem to be on pypi? There are multiple METIS wrappers on pypi and interestingly all are archived.
    - Put up a note in README that they are not maintained anymore, solicit new maintainers? 

- InfoMap algorithm for community detection? Are we interested in this? Interested enough to put it on the mentored projects list?
  * Reference issue: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/3745

- Is our github donation button messed up?
  * We need to fix the GitHub sponsor page https://github.com/sponsors/networkx [name=Juanita]
  * Use Matplotlib as reference https://github.com/sponsors/matplotlib

## Long-term tracking items

- Review public interface: For v3.0 should we be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- LaTeX interface
   - we could think of writing this to work with TikZ rather than adigraph
   - we could add checkson the images generated to the release process for any release candidates

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Looking at the Roadmap - what do we want on there?
  * Some ideas:
    - GraphBLAS in the performance section
    - Temporal networks, hypergraphs, other new graph types?
    - Make testing more comprehensive -- mixed node types, hashable nodes, etc. (hypothesis?)
    - Benchmarking suites to at least run locally some timing.

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - (Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.
    - Another one: configure CI to stop running tests from a previous commit when a new commit is pushed up (I think scipy does this, so can copy their config)

## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
TODO: Update zoom link
  - Want everyone to be able to share screen by default
  - Move away from berkeley-link