# NetworkX Developer Discussions: August 18th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Dan, Mridul, Dilara, Ross, Juanita

## Welcome and news


## Important dates/deadlines

- NX 3.0 release: late summer 2022
  
## Followup from last week

- Maintaining the [contributors list](https://networkx.org/documentation/stable/developer/about_us.html#contributors)
  * [Recent issue](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5917) indicates it's likely not very up-to-date
  * Do we want to maintain this separately? Other ideas:
    - Just let GitHub do it: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/graphs/contributors
      * Could link there from our docs or drop the list entirely
    - Replace the existing (out-of-date) list with the auto-generated one from `git log`
    - Other thoughts:
      * I personally don't like that people are adding links to their LinkedIn profiles
 
 - General opinion: leave as is

## Topics

- Select new meeting time for Fall 2022 semester
  * rossbar will make whenisgood tomorrow
  * Aim to start meetings with new time week of Sept. 1st
  * make sure Eric Ma, Kelly, 

- Review nx-2.8.6 - anything else we want to add?
  * Plan on a 2.8.7 as well, so not everything has to go into this one
  * One item on milestone list related to TSP test: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5913
    - Fix or bump to 2.8.7?

  - General consensus: let's bump to 2.8.7 and not block 2.8.6

  - We should try to automate the release process as much as possible so that we could remove a human from the release process. conda-forge has a very automated release system. Would a SPEC covering automated releases be reasonable?

- Pygraphviz 1.10 is out
  * Shouldn't be anything major for NX, but keep your eyes peeled
  * Already testing against 1.10
  * Issues with installing pygraphviz+graphviz via homebrew on macos seem to have resolved themselves :shrug: 

- type annotations
  * rossbar plans on reviewing pushing [#5886](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5886) (haven't had a chance to yet)

- [name=MridulS] Update on the GraphBLAS/CuGraph
  * Meeting/working closely with the python graphblas folks :tada: 
  * Branch with dispatch decorator implementation: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/compare/main...MridulS:networkx:nx-sparse
  * A plugin example which works with this decorator: https://github.com/MridulS/networkx_plugin_sparse
  * In the near future - contact other "backend" implementers (e.g. cugraph)
  * Mridul workin on explicit bridge to sparse.csgraph via the dispatcher

- New layouts: forceatlas2 & ARF
  * forceatlas2 seems to be quite popular via Gephi - would really like to have some testing to verify these work properly. Thoughts? Ideas?
  * Idea: let's not let tests block the PRs and merge with the intent of including in the 3.0 release
    - In the mean time, figure out some reasonable test cases for force directed layout functions in follow-up PRs

- New PR with algorithm that hasn't been published anywhere... [#5931](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/discussions/5931)
  - we should leave the possibility of unpublished algorithms in heavily used features. But this one could perhaps better be included as an example or a gallery example. If it is short and easy to understand, it might be included.

- We should probably clean up the discussions

## Long-term tracking items

- Post NX 3 release: A roadmap review.
  - better work with other packages. pygraphviz needs wheels -- getting there
  - GraphBLAS
  - We should have a "roadmap meeting" 
  - parallel backends? its different from backends, but maybe similar?
  
- Review public interface: For v3.0 should we be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- LaTeX interface
   - we could think of writing this to work with TikZ rather than adigraph
   - we could add checks on the images generated to the release process for any release candidates

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Looking at the Roadmap - what do we want on there?
  * Some ideas:
    - GraphBLAS in the performance section
    - Temporal networks, hypergraphs, other new graph types?
    - Make testing more comprehensive -- mixed node types, hashable nodes, etc. (hypothesis?)
    - Benchmarking suites to at least run locally some timing.

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - (Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.
    - Another one: configure CI to stop running tests from a previous commit when a new commit is pushed up (I think scipy does this, so can copy their config)

- [name=MridulS] I signed up on Tidelift to test it again, they have replied with a link to the [lifter agreement](https://support.tidelift.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406309657876-Lifter-agreement) and asked me if there are any issues with this. I will reach out again if there are no issues about this.
  * Hoops:
    * Prove Mridul is a maintainer
    * Review/sign the lifter agreement
  * The way we think this works:
    - We have a release on the conda-forge channel as well as PyPI - different income for the two
      * Depends on how tidelift's clients use these
  * Dan and/or Mridul will sign the agreement


## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
