# NetworkX Developer Discussions: May 20th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Matt, Mridul, Kelly, Jarrod, Ross, Dan

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX 2.8.1 (5/18/22)
- NX 2.8.2 (5/27/22)
- NX 3.0 (6/30/22)

## Topics

- NX 2.8.2 release
    - 2.8.1 had a bug in cacheing graph properties https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5657
    
- GSoC/Outreachy
  * Decisions made, roles accepted :tada: 
  * Next steps?
    - Invite the two students to this meeting
    - For Outreachy: existing email thread w/ Mridul/Dan/Ross - reach out to intern on this thread once they officially accept in outreachy
  * Feedback from Matt - how was the GSoC onboarding for you?
    * There was an intro meeting that was helfpul

- NX User Survey
    - https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScuk9Gz0X-a-Uk2aTgy88cB7GYAcPKZss9gxqzKzRYbtZb3Jw/viewform
    - Survey ideas:
      * Something about visualization
      * How is NX used?
        - Are users comparing algorithms? Prototyping? In there data analyses?
        - Are users often reading code for reference on graph algorithms?
      * Re: deprecations - instead of asking explicitly about deprecations, provide a spectrum of "stability"->"new features" (1-7 scale)
      * What other packages are networkx users using (other scientific Python pkgs, cytoscape, igraph, etc.)


- NX 2.8.2 [name=Jarrod]
    - Once released, sprint on removing deprecations.
    - rc for a short time
    - 27th May Release

- networkx.guide
  * [name=rossbar] Wait and see what the response is on the mailing list - follow up next week

- Create a tracking issue where we have some bits of code/algorithm where we don't follow the reference citied, but our code still works (no counter example of a bug in the implementation has been presented yet). Example is the lowest_common_ancestor implementation.
  - Discussion about auto-close bot
    * One problem is: there's a lot of code in the old PRs that we want to include! So auto-closing has the potential to make code that is actually desireable less discoverable
  - Other ideas:
    * Use milestones/issues

- LaTeX Graph
  * Really want this
  * Concerns: what are the plans for `adigraph` (the LaTeX package that is the "backend" for the NX drawing functionality)


- [Lowest Common Ancenstor](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5547) doesn't work for all corner cases (it works fine for trees). The suggestions in the issue doesn't work for a general DAG, it's only for a tree.


- How best to keep class/method/attribute docstrings consistent between inherited classes? https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5584

- [name=rossbar] Functions that wrap Graph class methods (`nx.nodes`, `nx.edges`, etc.) - how best to document?

- Discussion about `nodes_or_number` decorator: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5612
  * Add an `original_input_too` kwarg? Consider removing the decorator in favor of explicit input munging in fns where necessary?

- TSP API: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5596
  * How best to make this more user-friendly?

- Tournament graphs: currently raises `NotImplementedFor` for undirected+multigraphs. Should it return `False` instead?
  * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5543

- Export property-checking functions (`nx.is_`) to top-level name space?
  * Example with `is_tournament`: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5542

- `min_weighted_dominating_set` for directed graphs: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/5436
  * Nice example from contributor - seems like a good opportunity for a mini research project!


## Long-term tracking items

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
TODO: Update zoom link
  - Want everyone to be able to share screen by default
  - Move away from berkeley-link