# NetworkX Developer Discussions: June 9th, 2022

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Ross, Dilara, Dimitrios, Mridul, Matt, Dan, Konstantinos, Erik, Jarrod

## Welcome and news

- NetworkX Tutorial at PyCon IT this weekend :tada: 
- NX 2.8.3 released

## Important dates/deadlines

- NX 2.8.4 (6/11/22)
- NX 3 removal sprint (6/14/22 9-11am PDT...earlier for headstart with Ross)
- NX 3b1 (6/20/22?)
- NX 3rc1 (6/27/22?)
- NX 3 (7/15/22)

## Topics

- A regression in 2.8.3? https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5710 should we have a 2.8.4? (+1 from Jarrod)

- PyCon Italy tutorial + NX talks
  * Feedback: main complaint is speed (context is nice though)
    - Graphblas was exciting
  * Sticker distribution :) (Mridul is the sticker holder)

- Discussion: scipy is considering explicitly adding `import numpy as np` to every docstring example
  * Related discussion: should we switch to this in our own docs?
  * Advantages of switching:
    - Reinforces preferred import pattern, especially helpful for new users
    - Makes 

- Bigger picture: what to do about `pydot`?
  * pydot seems to have [a lot of parsing issues](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5710#pullrequestreview-1000887287) and they're not being fixed upstream. How to deal with this?
  * pygraphviz 1.10
      * https://github.com/pygraphviz/pygraphviz/pull/414
      * https://github.com/pygraphviz/pygraphviz/pull/415
  * pygraphviz 2.0 binary wheels (Ross)

  * TODO: The pydot plan [name=Jarrod]
    - Add a PendingDeprecationWarning that includes:
      * A clear statement on why we're considering the deprecation
      * A link to an open issue as a focus for feedback
    - If we get a lot of feedback that there are many users for `nx_pydot`, consider adding more effort to it

- pydata-sphinx-theme 0.9: dark mode

- pytest randomly
  - ~~Mridul is working on this, will ping when it's in a good state!~~ It's good to go! A bunch of runs seem to work locally.

- GSoC/Outreachy updates/general discussion

- [name=rossbar] TODO: discord invites to Konstantinos & Dilara
  * Organize a deprecation "pre"-sprint (i.e. some pair programming to expire deprecations)
  
- Looking at the Roadmap - what do we want on there?
  * Some ideas:
    - GraphBLAS in the performance section
    - Temporal networks, hypergraphs, other new graph types?

## Long-term tracking items

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - (Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.
    - Another one: configure CI to stop running tests from a previous commit when a new commit is pushed up (I think scipy does this, so can copy their config)

## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org

TODO: Fix Grey/Green checkmark problem on GH!
TODO: Update zoom link
  - Want everyone to be able to share screen by default
  - Move away from berkeley-link