# NetworkX Developer Discussions: January 17th, 2023

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Matt, Erik, Paula, Sultan, Ross

## Welcome and news

* New meeting time: Tuesdays, 9:30 - 10:30AM PDT
* Roadmap meeting: Next week, 1/24

## Important dates/deadlines

* Outreachy term ends ~end of February

## Follow-up from last week

* SciPy conference: Network analysis tutorial?
  - 5ish weeks left to submit proposal (late Feb.)
  - A joint, general tutorial on network analysis? (i.e. NetworkX + graphblas)
  - Erik + Mridul will take the lead (+ reach out to Eric Ma)

* [name=rossbar] Forgot to mention last week: rotated ssh keys for CircleCI deploy job on `nx-guides` after circleci's [security breach](https://circleci.com/blog/jan-4-2023-incident-report/)
  * Should doublecheck that there are no additional keys/API tokens in the main repo

* [name=Mridul] survey results?
  - Survey is still ongoing
  - 16 (very biased) responses so far
  - PR open to add a banner to docs
    * Also add something to README? Pinned issue?
  - Plan to leave open for ~1 month

* [name=Mridul] Update on the memgraph situation w/ numfocus
  - Numfocus is aware - all communications have been forwarded. Wait and see

* [name=Mridul] Update on adopting ruff - PR consolidation underway?
  - One PR with lint checks
  - [name=rossbar] re: ruff autofix - the situation I want to avoid is one where ruff automatically applies fixes via pre-commit for devs who are not used to it and don't know how to undo/suppress incorrect auto "fixes"

Just TODOs below, no timeline! Leaving here in case there are any updates...

* [name=Mridul] Respond to parallel PR - better implemented as a backend
  - New repo `nx_parallel` backend: sandbox for parallel implementations: https://github.com/MridulS/nx_parallel

* TODO [name=Mridul] : Add a dispatching category to the example gallery
    * GraphBLAS user example in gallery.
    * CuGraph (once it's up) colab example in the docs/gallery
  * Also add to the main tutorial

* [name=Mridul] type stubs


## Topics

- Noisy PRs from students - should we *politely* reach out to the professor and ask that they submit PRs to his fork first while under active development/for internal review first?
  * https://github.com/erelsgl

- [name=rossbar] Any objections to recommending `pytest --pyargs` for testing in the dev guide?
  * Relevant PR: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6303

- Roadmap prep: ideas to be discussed/included in the roadmap
  * Updating networkx.org homepage
    - Adopting `scientific-python-hugo-theme`? A different theme?
  * HyperGraphs, Temporal Networks, MixedGraphs - More base classes? Should they go in NX?
  * Dispatching 2.
      - Auto conversion between different backend types.
      - Cacheing of graphs between different backends.
  * standardizing attribute transfers from/to pandas, numpy, xarray
  * visualization API improvements--edge bundling, GraVe, nxviz
  * Benchmarking

## Long-term tracking items

- Adopt `pyproject.toml`?
  * [This article was a nice overview](https://snarky.ca/what-the-heck-is-pyproject-toml/)
  * Since NX doesn't have build deps, there's no strong motivation to do so other than "other projects are doing it"
  * Potential "benefit" - store metadata/configs for additional tooling (e.g. type checkers, linters) in one place[PEP 621](https://peps.python.org/pep-0621/) 

- helpful to have a place for best-practices like nbunch, view vs dict, subgraph vs subgraph.copy()
  * nx-guides would be a good place for this!

- Keyword-only and maybe position-only input. Candidate subpackage to start changing code to keyword-only is the nx_pylab. (see [SLEP009](https://scikit-learn-enhancement-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/slep009/proposal.html) for how sklearn did this)

- We should try to automate the release process as much as possible so that we could remove a human from the release process. conda-forge has a very automated release system. Would a SPEC covering automated releases be reasonable?
    - Not clear what the advanatges of automating the release process would be. The process is [documented](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/release.rst) What would make this better?
    - Why would automating things further not cause problems?

- Post NX 3 release: A roadmap review.
  - better work with other packages. pygraphviz needs wheels -- getting there (JM wants this before the NX 3 release)
  - GraphBLAS
  - We should have a "roadmap meeting" 
  - parallel backends? its different from backends, but maybe similar?
  - Other ideas
    - GraphBLAS in the performance section
    - Temporal networks, hypergraphs, other new graph types?
    - Make testing more comprehensive -- mixed node types, hashable nodes, etc. (hypothesis?)
    - Benchmarking suites to at least run locally some timing.
  
- Review public interface: For v4.0 we should be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- LaTeX interface
   - #5702 has two interfaces: TikZ and adigraph. The adigraph takes values for 3 node attributes like `G.nodes[2]["width"]=3`, while the TikZ version needs values to be strings like "[width=3]" for lots and lots of parameters allowed by TikZ.
   - Do we want two interfaces? what should the interface be? [Answer: we want a single interface if possible and its OK to make the user learn a little TikZ in order to use it effectively.]

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Now raise UserWarnings when users request features that are not available for the underlying edge-viz object (e.g. LineCollection)
    - Is there a better, more wholistic solution?
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- Stop building/shipping pdf version of documentation?
  * This is being considered by both scipy and numpy and seems to have garnered mostly positive feedback
    - related scipy issue: https://github.com/scipy/scipy/issues/15635
  * revisit after 2.8 release -- We'll keep it for v3.0 and then look at removing it after that.
  * Keep up-to-date with feedback from other projects that are considering this

- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - ~~(Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?~~
      - deprecated code removed

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.

## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org