# NetworkX Developer Discussions: March 14th 2023

Previous meeting notes available [here](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings). Please feel free to add topics for discussion and news items below.

**In attendance:** Matt, Dan, Ross, Mridul, Jim, Paula

## Welcome and news

## Important dates/deadlines

* SciPy conference tutorial proposals due: ~~Feb. 22nd~~ March 1
* GSOC ??  (viz?  graphBLAS backend?) - Need projects for the "mentored projects" page
  - GSoC Deadline: 2/7
    - Apply under numfocus umbrella
    - Two pings about it on NetworkX discuss list
* NetworkX 3.1: Set for March 31. Our goal is to release a last version with Python 3.8 support.
    * (fixed) Dispatch decorator is broken when a graph object is passed as a keyword argument https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/6458

## Follow-up from last week

* Feedback on the NumFOCUS lawyers' response to the memgraph folks?
  * Letter has been sent
  * they responded, and our lawyer drafted a re-response
  * We [mridul] will tell the lawyer to send it.
      * It's sent

Next Week: go through the Teams and permissions
(Move Matt to a Maintainer)
  * 3 proposed teams [by Mridul, but not suported by everyone]:
    - maintainers (with commit rights)
    - triage (with triage rights)
    - emeritus (no active rights)

- Knotty centrality: what to do about the first PR that's still open
  * Mridul + Kelly have looked at it, naive implementation of Knotty centrality gives different answer
  * Action item: incorporate naive implementation first
      * Created a new issue https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/6475 and the old PR is closed.


- LaTeX for math formatting in docstrings: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/6399
  * There clearly is no general policy (some docstrings use a lot of math formatting, others not)
  * Disadvantage of heavy TeX math in docstrings is that it doesn't render in the terminal
    - Though future tools like `papyri` will help!
  * Any thoughts on this? Something we could add to the contributor guide?
  * Use raw strings to avoid double backslash.

- Open up/publicize discord for chat like experiences for new contributors?:
    - Add links to discord to README, outreachy docs.

  * based on feedback from outreachy Paula and seems like a good way to improve communication.
      * Added link to discord in the outreachy discussions tab

## NXEP topic of the week
Let's talk about one NXEP each week (unless other stuff gets in the way).  This week:
    * What do we do when a NXEP has one possible solution implemented and merged? Accept it? Rewrite to show that solution as the proposal with others as alternates? See [NXEP 2](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/nxeps/nxep-0002.rst)
    * Next week: [NXEP 4](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/nxeps/nxep-0004.rst) -- Adopting numpy.random.Generator as default random interface
    
## Topics

- [Jarrod] Doc deploy job is broken due to missing pdf upload.   Issue: [#6492](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/6492)

- Adding a new set of generative algorithms: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/discussions/6506   (Yes!)

- What would it take to make _dispatch for every function that takes a single graph as the first argument?

- We should add tests of the dispatch system using the networkx Graph as the backend.


## Long-term tracking items

- Adopt `pyproject.toml`?
  * [This article was a nice overview](https://snarky.ca/what-the-heck-is-pyproject-toml/)
  * Since NX doesn't have build deps, there's no strong motivation to do so other than "other projects are doing it"
  * Potential "benefit" - store metadata/configs for additional tooling (e.g. type checkers, linters) in one place. [PEP 621](https://peps.python.org/pep-0621/) 
  * Jarrod reports that there may be many changes to the systems in the lead up to Python 3.12. So maybe we should delay consideration of changing to this until then. If we do adopt pyproject.toml, we may want to autogenerate it from the requirements file. For example, see what we did in scikit-image:
https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/blob/main/tools/generate_pyproject.toml.py
  * Jarrod reports that at the moment every config piece can't be put into `pyproject.toml`.  He tried it with skimage. Jarrod will take a shot at converting configs to pyproject.toml (ruff will be able to go there too)
  * goals: combine as much as possible. and make pyproject.toml autogenerated.
  * [Jarrod] Not sure if this is worth doing now. It looks like it would increase number of files and lines of code without adding any functionality.

- helpful to have a place for best-practices like nbunch, view vs dict, subgraph vs subgraph.copy()
  * nx-guides would be a good place for this!

- Keyword-only and maybe position-only input. Candidate subpackage to start changing code to keyword-only is the nx_pylab. (see [SLEP009](https://scikit-learn-enhancement-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/slep009/proposal.html) for how sklearn did this)

- We should try to automate the release process as much as possible so that we could remove a human from the release process. conda-forge has a very automated release system. Would a SPEC covering automated releases be reasonable?
    - Not clear what the advanatges of automating the release process would be. The process is [documented](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/doc/developer/release.rst) What would make this better?
    - Why would automating things further not cause problems?
    - That's agree to make sure a PR's title is helpful and descriptive before merging it.

- Review public interface: For v4.0 we should be looking at the import structure?  Some subpackages are not imported to the main namespace. We have decided that based on history of how they were first committed. Is there a good way to decide which should require an extra referal: `network.community.modularity` instead of `networkx.modularity`?
  - First decision: what do we *want* the interface to be?
  - Module/pkg `__dir__` provides a nice way to modify discoverability of modules/packages **without** breaking existing code
  - NX-guide idea: model/visualize the package as a DAG (thanks Matt!)

- keywords arrows, arrowstyle, connectionstyle. Can we improve this interface? [#5694](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/5694) and a link to the [current interface](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/2c904d18dc79df3acd64495ef64c6ff4674992a0/networkx/drawing/nx_pylab.py#L537)
    - Now raise UserWarnings when users request features that are not available for the underlying edge-viz object (e.g. LineCollection)
    - Is there a better, more wholistic solution?
    - Need to indicate:
      o FancyArrowPatch or LineCollection
      o The arrowstyle (head or not or both, etc)
      o The connectionstyle (arc bendable etc)
    - Maybe changing the name of `arrows` to `fancyedges` would help
    - New logic could be:  If non-default value for either arrowstyle or connectionstyle then switch to FancyArrowPatch.
    - milestone this for v3.0

- Property-based testing
  * Check out `hypothesis` for setting up property-based testing
  * Developing good property-based tests:
    - Reference "naive" (but correct) implementation
    - Generate random graphs, evaluate them for the property you want
    - Pump these through the naive implementation and collect interesting cases for test suite

- Temporal networks: how to think about these
  * seems to be a lot of interest from different communities, but no standard approach yet...
  * Having a use-case to drive the design of a data structure would be good
  
- nx-guides
  * We need a contributor guide :book: [name=Mridul]
  * Dependency management for tutorials - how to strike a balance between tools people use and maintainability

- New contributors
  * So many good students/contributions - how do we keep the ball rolling (even if we can only accept 1 or a subset of them for this round)
    - Add something to contributor guide about where to look for good issues (e.g. add missing docstring examples)
    - Link to [first issue tag](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/labels/Good%20First%20Issue) on github?
    
- Revisiting our pytest `slow` mark:
  * The `slow` tests are run w/ each push/PR in the coverage job; however, it's not necessarily true that the slow tests improve coverage!
  * Could save a lot of CI time by having a separate category (e.g. `pytest.mark.comprehensive`?) that is for tests that are slow but *don't* affect coverage. These could be run less frequently (scheduled job?) and potentially save several minutes for each push
    - General consensus: seems like a good idea
    - ~~(Jarrod) maybe worth waiting until after the code removal sprint?~~
      - deprecated code removed

- Other CI-saving ideas
    - All tests should depend on the lint action, so all the other tests fail fast.

## Discussion

- [ ] Social media
    * NetworkX twitter
    * blog.scientific-python.org