# NetworkX Developer Discussions: Nov 20th, 2025

**Note!! There will be no meeting Thursday Nov 27, 2025 (USA Thanksgiving)**

[Previous meeting notes](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings) are available. 
Please add News, Discussion and Topics below.
Meeting link: https://colgate.zoom.us/j/92619161786

## Meeting Info
- Meeting time Thursdays 12-1 ET (5pm UTC)
  * Meeting poll results: https://crab.fit/nx-weekly-meeting-times-fall-2025-247139
- [dispatching meeting](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) 1st Tuesday of the month 11:30-12:30 ET 
- [Publicly available analytics for our docs pages](https://views.scientific-python.org/networkx.org)

**In attendance**: Rick, Ross, Dan

## Upcoming meetings and events

## Admin stuff
- NumFOCUS CoC [PR 8320](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8320)
    - We chose to have the CoC Working Group give us recommendations and we make the final decisions. 
    - We updated our code of conduct. NumFOCUS will now review our CoC and see if they have any other questions/comments/discussion?
- NumFOCUS leadership votes. Our votes get combined to equal one sponsored project's input.
    -  Dan registered and then voted for the NetworkX project. Results will be announced Dec 15.
 
## Topics

- Release 3.6
  * Release docs updates 
  * No complaints from the RC *tada* But did break some CI in nx-cugraph. But not a NX change needed.
  * Let's get a full release out -- @mridul should "do it" and we could be there via zoom if that would help.

- [TODO] nx-parallel release with next networkx release

- Refactor nx.draw to [use display under-the-hood PR 8255](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8255)
    - any concerns on this approach for NX 3.6? (probably wait for 3.7)
    - run drawing heavy suites from outside the tests:
        - gallery
        - nx-guides
- Probably should Update docs to point to iplotx and/or display as needed. (Action: open an issue)

- Isomorphism:  All algorithms now support directed and multi graphs. I think all support isomorphism and subgraph isomorphism. But some do not support monomorphism. I'm moving forward on unified testing and API development instead of attcking monomorphism now. Once unified interface is there we can add new algorithms and add monomorphism support.

- Wellcome grant annual report is due mid-Dec. Dan will write a draft for the report. Will need people to read/comment.
 
### Action Items
- We should address the contributors with a single function optimization for their use-case. Probably by making backends with one function easy to use/share/morph.
- Webpage and translations: Jarrod held off from updating the webpage though. He says "But the translations on the main page look like they are going to make releases more difficult if we want to keep the translations up to date." Where do we stand on this issue? Are there discussions on the website repo PRs or Issues that discuss how to update the webpages?
    - Jarrod updated the webpage to v3.5 without the translations.
    - Let's continue the discussion of how to maintain translations. Numpy has English for v2.2 while translations are only for v1.26.
- `iplotx` (Fabio Zanini [package for drawing igraph and NetworkX graphs](https://github.com/fabilab/iplotx)) 
    - Updates:
        - Fabio is encouraged by our feedback and is close to switching to focus intently on docs and tests. **Summary of following quote:** Create issues on iplotx for any suggestions so he can remember them.
        - take a look at [the "styles" docs](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/style.html)
        - [Gallery](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gallery/index.html) 


## Old Topics
- Benchmarking: Building off what Derek put together.
    - pytest.benchmark vs asv for benchmarks? Are there better tools. 
        - What did Derek use in the end? Are there tools within that we could build on.
    - Three aspects to benchmarking:
        - presentation of results
        - running and data storage (ascii/csv/json, etc)
        - authoring (which datasets as well as parameters of the functions)
    - Can we put together a set of functions and datasets?
        - Create a NetworkX suite of graph benchmarks
- Manually replace functions with useful errormessages by tweaking `getattr`. Let's try to do this with removed functions that have replacements. (Add docs for developers about this to the deprecation handling part of dev docs.)
