# NetworkX Developer Discussions: Dec 4th, 2025

**Note: There was no meeting Thursday Nov 27, 2025 (USA Thanksgiving)**

[Previous meeting notes](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings) are available. 
Please add News, Discussion and Topics below.
Meeting link: https://colgate.zoom.us/j/92619161786

## Meeting Info
- Meeting time Thursdays 12-1 ET (5pm UTC)
- [dispatching meeting](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) 1st Tuesday of the month 11:30-12:30 ET 
- [Publicly available analytics for our docs pages](https://views.scientific-python.org/networkx.org)

**In attendance**: Rick, Dan, Mridul 

## Upcoming meetings and events
- Discussion with BiDS and OSPO about the November Scientific-python summit surrounding the NetworkX summit. [Right after this meeting.](https://events.berkeley.edu/bids/event/306418-ospo-monthly-knowledge-exchange-scientific-python-dev) 
- NetworkX 1-on-1 meeting with NumFOCUS. Dec 11 @ 1:45-2:30pm ET Let Dan know if you want to attend.

## Admin stuff
- Tidelift has asked us to use 2FA with github (at least the 3 people they watch: Dan, Mridul and Ross) Fixed! :tada:
- NumFOCUS CoC [PR 8320](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8320)
    - We chose to have the CoC Working Group give us recommendations and we make the final decisions. 
    - We updated our code of conduct. NumFOCUS will now review our CoC and see if they have any other questions/comments/discussion?
- NumFOCUS leadership votes. Our votes get combined to equal one sponsored project's input.
    -  Dan registered and then voted for the NetworkX project. Results will be announced Dec 15.
 
## Topics

- Release 3.6
  * Release docs updates 
  * No complaints from the RC *tada* But did break some CI in nx-cugraph. But not a NX change needed.
  * @mridul got the Release out!  Any complaints?
  * Release docs have been updated to reflect how this is done!
  * :tada:   Thanks everyone! 

- Translations -- looks fixed.. Anything else for this?

- [TODO] nx-parallel release with next networkx release

- Refactor nx.draw to [use display under-the-hood PR 8255](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8255)
    - run drawing heavy suites from outside the tests:
        - gallery
        - nx-guides
- Probably should Update docs to point to iplotx and/or display as needed. (Action: open an issue)

- Isomorphism:  All algorithms now support directed and multi graphs. VF2++ needs to support subgraph isomorphism. VF2++ and ISMAGS need support for monomorphism.  A unified testing PR is almost ready Once in place we can add monomorphism support and start on new algorithms.

- Wellcome grant annual report is Dec 19. Dan will write a draft for the report. Will need people to read/comment.
 
- Rick reported on good feedback about networkx from his discussion/lists with cu-graph. Someone reported interest in nx-cugraph because the networkx interface is broadly used.

### Action Items
- We should help out contributors who have a single function optimization for their use-case. Probably by making backends with one function easy to use/share/morph.
- `iplotx` (Fabio Zanini [package for drawing igraph and NetworkX graphs](https://github.com/fabilab/iplotx)) 
    - Updates:
        - Fabio is encouraged by our feedback and is close to switching to focus intently on docs and tests. **Summary of following quote:** Create issues on iplotx for any suggestions so he can remember them.
        - take a look at [the "styles" docs](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/style.html)
        - [Gallery](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gallery/index.html) 


## Old Topics
- Benchmarking: Building off what Derek put together.
    - pytest.benchmark vs asv for benchmarks? Are there better tools. 
        - What did Derek use in the end? Are there tools within that we could build on.
    - Three aspects to benchmarking:
        - presentation of results
        - running and data storage (ascii/csv/json, etc)
        - authoring (which datasets as well as parameters of the functions)
    - Can we put together a set of functions and datasets?
        - Create a NetworkX suite of graph benchmarks
- Manually replace functions with useful errormessages by tweaking `getattr`. Let's try to do this with removed functions that have replacements. (Add docs for developers about this to the deprecation handling part of dev docs.)
