# NetworkX Developer Discussions: June 12, 2025

[Previous meeting notes](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings) are available. 
Please add News, Discussion and Topics below.
Meeting link: https://colgate.zoom.us/j/92619161786

New Meeting Time:  Thursdays 12-1 ET

## Meeting Info
- Meeting time Thursdays 12-1 ET (4pm UTC) 
- [dispatching meeting](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) 1st Tuesday of the month 11:30-12:30 ET 
- [Publicly available analytics for our docs pages](https://views.scientific-python.org/networkx.org)

**In attendance**: Ross, Matt, Akshita, Aditi, Rick, Mridul, Dan

### News and Welcome
- NetworkX 3.5 has been released!
    - FYI: BC results did change and that caught cugraph.

## Upcoming meetings and events
- [dispatching](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) Monthly meetings on the first Tuesday of each month.
- PyData London June 6-8th (Mridul talk)
    - Went well. Bunch of Questions about GraphDBs. Can they just drop in neo4j? (No). Also asked about knowledge graph libraries (frontends) -- used for GNN and LLM to reduce hallucinations.
    - For GraphDBs, ArrangoDB almost gives a nice solution. Need something like a `query` method that is a string and can access the DB backend features.
    - Tutorials around task managements(workflows) and/or knowledge graphs would likely have a large impact.
- Scipy 2025 (Erik & Ralph talk and poster)

### Action Items
- `iplotx` (Fabio Zanini [package for drawing igraph and NetworkX graphs](https://github.com/fabilab/iplotx)) draft version for comments. Examples: A [somewhat complex example](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gallery/plot_complex.html) and [the current gallery of plots](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gallery/index.html).
  - Let's take a look at the style system presented. Would it make sense to have default ways to look up values that are not assigned in the style dict?
  - Are there other aspects of drawing we would want to include? 
    - Some feedback:
        - Nice Name!
        - The self-loops look better!
        - The syntax makes use of the style elements being stored on the graph. At least if they are on the graph it makes the syntax easy to point to them. It also looks like storing them separately from the graph works too. 
        - Let's check how storing style elements as arrays also works (old style drawing).
- Webpage and translations: Jarrod held off from updating the webpage though. He says "But the translations on the main page look like they are going to make releases more difficult if we want to keep the translations up to date." Where do we stand on this issue? Are there discussions on the website repo PRs or Issues that discuss how to update the webpages?
    - Jarrod updated the webpage to v3.5 without the translations.
    - Let's continue the discussion of how to maintain translations. Numpy has English for v2.2 while translations are only for v1.26.

## Topics
- Using numpy arrays with memmapping in joblib gave a 7x speedup (including the conversion) in `tournament.is_reachable` with only njob=1. So it seems like this would be good to include in NetworkX. Is that reasonable? (Yes!)
- ordered nodes, and a clearly stated contract about ordered nodes. [PR 8071](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8071) and many others. 
    - one motivating issue from `optimize_edit_paths` [Issue 8054](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/8054)
- dispatching of classes. Lets look at the [PR 7760](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/7760) and whether this is something we want to do.
    - Would be used by arrangoDB and nx-cugraph
    - if its useful for backend users/consumers and it doesn't impact other users (opt-in, etc). 
- chordal graphs, elimination orders, etc.
    - what is alpha used for other than an ordering. Why not return a list for the ordering?
    - Alpha dict is supposed to be a perfect elimination ordering. We will remove the alpha feature and just return the ordering as a list.
- Benchmarking: Building off what Derek put together.
    - pytest.benchmark vs asv for benchmarks? Are there better tools. 
        - What did Derek use in the end? Are there tools within that we could build on.
    - Three aspects to benchmarking:
        - presentation of results
        - running and data storage (ascii/csv/json, etc)
        - authoring (which datasets as well as parameters of the functions)
    - Can we put together a set of functions and datasets?
        - Create a NetworkX suite of graph benchmarks
- Manually replace functions with useful errormessages by tweaking `getattr`. Let's try to do this with removed functions that have replacements. (Add docs for developers about this to the deprecation handling part of dev docs.)
