# NetworkX Developer Discussions: Sept 4, 2025

[Previous meeting notes](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings) are available. 
Please add News, Discussion and Topics below.
Meeting link: https://colgate.zoom.us/j/92619161786
Alternate link: https://caltech.zoom.us/j/7598630070

## Meeting Info
- Meeting time Thursdays 12-1 ET (4pm UTC) 
- [dispatching meeting](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) 1st Tuesday of the month 11:30-12:30 ET 
- [Publicly available analytics for our docs pages](https://views.scientific-python.org/networkx.org)

**In attendance**: Dan, Ross, Erik, Mridul

## Upcoming meetings and events
- Scientific Python Summit Nov 5-7 (NetworkX Summit plus sklearn plus sebastian)

## Topics

- [TODO] nx-parallel release with next networkx release
- [TODO] Done :tada: nx-parallel: milestone token expired!

- Wellcome OSS Health Dashboard: https://networkx.augurlabs.io/contributions
- Related: Linux foundation "insights": https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8219
    - Yes to adding badges

- State of the "topological" generators (k-lift, slimfly, etc.)
    - [random_k_lift](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8045) Should this be in operator, or generator? With `random` at front or just `k_lift`?
        - Is `H = nx.k_lift(G, k)` like `nx.power(G, k)` or `nx.complement(G)` which are in algorithms under `operators.py`? Or is it like `nx.stochastic_graph(G)` or `nx.line_graph(G)` which are in generators?

- [Panther++](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/4400)
  * KDTree for high-dimensional data
      * set default dims of something like 3. Then let people bump it up.
      * check runtime perf for 3 and 15 and 50. 
      * Is there a real world example where we can see if these matter?
      * What is an alternative to KDtree?

- Coverage-related activities
  * Moving `runslow` out of coverage job
    - Most of the missing coverage related to `test_all_random_functions` tests

- Edge coloring: distinct from node-coloring on line graphs? [no... equivalent to, but more efficient algorithms can be used than (make line_graph, apply node coloring). Still, most effort is typically given to node coloring.]
    - could use line_graph method as comparison with edge_coloring tech

- CircleCI coverage - WDYT Mridul?

- Data structure patterns we like:
    - Class/methods vs functions. Class based subpackages can be hard to learn (no easy way to tell where method is used). Function interfaces pass around data instead, can get involved. How best to take advantage of functional interfaces and also classes? 
        - provide methods only for basic operations
        - ?put most code in helper functions that take a class as input?
        - User facing functions take graphs and parameters, make class instance then call helper functions.

- isomorphism ideas:
    - Use treelets in chemotaxis for testing performance of various methods.
    - Name preferences?
        - label vs color vs type. Each are used in literature for generic attributes of a node or edge. 

    - ISMAGS is built on top of VF with an additional step (and a bunch of setup) to use symmetry to shrink the search space for isomorphisms. Reduces the number of isomorphisms to be found.
    - We could refactor ismags to work on top of any of the search based tools (VF2, VF2pp).
    - Each method/approach only needs `subgraph_isomorphism_iter` and `monomorphism_iter`.
        - The user functions `isomorphism_iter`, `largest_common_subgraph` and `is_isomorphic` can be built from those in a method agnostic way.
    - Node labels, if not present can be degree. Edge labels if not present can be degree 2-tuple of nodes on each end. Fancy node "colors" can be 3-tuple of (node label, Counter of edges of each color, node label on other side of edge). This can make a fairly complex `is_isomorphic_fast` recipe. (check how many colors there are... or how many nodes and edges have each color).

### Action Items
- Webpage and translations: Jarrod held off from updating the webpage though. He says "But the translations on the main page look like they are going to make releases more difficult if we want to keep the translations up to date." Where do we stand on this issue? Are there discussions on the website repo PRs or Issues that discuss how to update the webpages?
    - Jarrod updated the webpage to v3.5 without the translations.
    - Let's continue the discussion of how to maintain translations. Numpy has English for v2.2 while translations are only for v1.26.
- `iplotx` (Fabio Zanini [package for drawing igraph and NetworkX graphs](https://github.com/fabilab/iplotx)) 
    - Updates:
        - Fabio is encouraged by our feedback and is close to switching to focus intently on docs and tests. **Summary of following quote:** Create issues on iplotx for any suggestions so he can remember them.
        - take a look at [the "styles" docs](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/style.html)
        - [Gallery](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gallery/index.html) 
- dispatching of classes. Lets look at the [PR 7760](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/7760) and whether this is something we want to do.
    - Would be used by arrangoDB and nx-cugraph
    - if its useful for backend users/consumers and it doesn't impact other users (opt-in, etc). 


## Old Topics
- Benchmarking: Building off what Derek put together.
    - pytest.benchmark vs asv for benchmarks? Are there better tools. 
        - What did Derek use in the end? Are there tools within that we could build on.
    - Three aspects to benchmarking:
        - presentation of results
        - running and data storage (ascii/csv/json, etc)
        - authoring (which datasets as well as parameters of the functions)
    - Can we put together a set of functions and datasets?
        - Create a NetworkX suite of graph benchmarks
- Manually replace functions with useful errormessages by tweaking `getattr`. Let's try to do this with removed functions that have replacements. (Add docs for developers about this to the deprecation handling part of dev docs.)
