# NetworkX Developer Discussions: July 24, 2025

[Previous meeting notes](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings) are available. 
Please add News, Discussion and Topics below.
Meeting link: https://colgate.zoom.us/j/92619161786

## Meeting Info
- Meeting time Thursdays 12-1 ET (4pm UTC) 
- [dispatching meeting](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) 1st Tuesday of the month 11:30-12:30 ET 
- [Publicly available analytics for our docs pages](https://views.scientific-python.org/networkx.org)

**In attendance**: Rick, Mridul, Dan, Aditi

## Upcoming meetings and events
- Scipy 2025 (Erik)
- EuroSciPy 2025 (18-22 Aug): Aditi and Sebastian talk

## Topics

- webpage translations and updates during release cycle. (discussion with Jarrod present)

- loopback testing errors (we only run the tests with 3.10). Brought up because of [Issue #8115](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/8115)
  * TODOs:
    1. Add a scheduled (cron) job to github actions to run the dispatching tests with the full suite of Python versions (and maybe OS'es too)
    2. Look at updated environment info just posted in 8115 to see if we can't generate a reproducer on a machine with both Python 3.10 and GPU(s)

- Timing/benchmarking utilities
    - asv vs pytest-benchmark
        - pytest-benchmark good for making lightweight changes and keeping track of the difference using ascii output or plugging into another tool.
        - asv is good for comparing versions of network without manually having to change the version of the software.

### Action Items
- Webpage and translations: Jarrod held off from updating the webpage though. He says "But the translations on the main page look like they are going to make releases more difficult if we want to keep the translations up to date." Where do we stand on this issue? Are there discussions on the website repo PRs or Issues that discuss how to update the webpages?
    - Jarrod updated the webpage to v3.5 without the translations.
    - Let's continue the discussion of how to maintain translations. Numpy has English for v2.2 while translations are only for v1.26.
- `iplotx` (Fabio Zanini [package for drawing igraph and NetworkX graphs](https://github.com/fabilab/iplotx)) 
    - Updates:
        - Fabio is encouraged by our feedback and is close to switching to focus intently on docs and tests. **Summary of following quote:** Create issues on iplotx for any suggestions so he can remember them.
        - take a look at [the "styles" docs](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/style.html)
        - [Gallery](https://iplotx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gallery/index.html) 
- dispatching of classes. Lets look at the [PR 7760](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/7760) and whether this is something we want to do.
    - Would be used by arrangoDB and nx-cugraph
    - if its useful for backend users/consumers and it doesn't impact other users (opt-in, etc). 


## Old Topics
- Benchmarking: Building off what Derek put together.
    - pytest.benchmark vs asv for benchmarks? Are there better tools. 
        - What did Derek use in the end? Are there tools within that we could build on.
    - Three aspects to benchmarking:
        - presentation of results
        - running and data storage (ascii/csv/json, etc)
        - authoring (which datasets as well as parameters of the functions)
    - Can we put together a set of functions and datasets?
        - Create a NetworkX suite of graph benchmarks
- Manually replace functions with useful errormessages by tweaking `getattr`. Let's try to do this with removed functions that have replacements. (Add docs for developers about this to the deprecation handling part of dev docs.)
