# NetworkX Developer Discussions: Feb 19, 2025

[Previous meeting notes](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings) are available. 
Please add News, Discussion and Topics below.
Meeting link: https://colgate.zoom.us/j/92619161786

## Meeting Info
- Meeting time Thursdays 12-1 ET (5pm UTC)
- [dispatching meeting](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) 1st Tuesday of the month 11:30-12:30 ET 
- [Publicly available analytics for our docs pages](https://views.scientific-python.org/networkx.org)

**In attendance**: Dan, Ross, Mridul

## Topics
- isomorphism is moving along. I think the multigraph testing is incomplete. Things are passing that I don't see how they are passing when looking at ISMAGS code. But we've made progress!
    - vf2pp now supports subgraph iso and mono-morphism. Still needs edge labels
    - testing is better
    - work is now focusing on testing multigraph and suporting monomorphism in ismags.
    - I will re-review the vf2pp PR now that its been a week or two and then merge

- community detection. We have momentum on support for constant potts model measure of partition quality, and toward support for python version of Leiden.
    - backend support allows objective_function input as strings "modularity" and "constant-potts-model", Should we aim for any quality function? Or just focus on those two for now?
    - The current Louvain should be improved as we find better approaches while adding the Leiden support.

- pygraphviz update?

- CI changes (Pixi) update?

- Grant update -- we can apply for a no-cost extension. Need to figure out how budget is shifting from and to, justify the extension based on work originally slated in the grant (not new work). Timing needs to be more than 2 months before end of grant.

- bug in dominating set and very old draft PR [1573](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/1573) that probably fixes it and more.

- GEXF conversion issues again

- floating point examples [8389](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8389)
    - many comments in the issue, but not many PRs I think the gsoc students didn't end up doing that much. Am I missing something?

- random_walk followup
  * generator in, remaining TODOs:
    - [ ] Improve docstring, esp. with examples of different termination conditions
    - [ ] benchmarks
    - [ ] Multiple implementations
      * [8525](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8525) - proposed impl during review
      * [8528](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8528) - nested generators

- Minimum feedback edge set : https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8521
  * New proposal, seems like a reasonable add


## Old Topics from last week
- Thoughts on next NetworkX summit?  (from last week listed here)
    - Juneish in Copenhagen or in Greece?
    - Make "topics for the day" approach where we focus on e.g. reducing # of PRs, pygraphviz, etc.
    - list of summit topics is at bottom of these agendas
- Random Walks
    - Make a simple function to be used as building block
       - Unweighted, simple graph: 
       - `[node] + [(node := seed.choice(G._adj[node])) for _ in walk_length]`
        - add documentation page that goes through lots of possible uses (start node, multiple walks, length limit, etc
        - For backends, it is usual to request a large chunk of output with less generator style intervention. Let's look at shortest_path routines to see how backedns have handled generators there.
        - example of tricky stop condition without generator: terminate walk with 10% chance each step of walk.
- [Football gallery example](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8419)
  - Link to football data is kaput; can we intern/mirror it? 33kb.  put into our code? Or add a repo for small graphs we use in docs?
  - Decision needed (for at least first PR)
      - lets put it in NX and see what thats like
- Refactor nx.draw to [use `display` under-the-hood PR 8255](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8255)
    - run drawing heavy suites from outside the tests:
        - gallery (side-by-side compare of gallery examples)
        - nx-guides (Anything easy for nx-guides?)
- `_build_paths_from_predecessors`: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8460
  * Both existing and proposed implementations are hard to understand
    - Can we use dict.popitem to implement LIFO?  (Yes!)
    - might need to do that ourselves as no response
- Re-use of intermediate computations - general approach/policy?
  * e.g. re-using shortest paths dict in closeness_centrality: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8424
  * Other places where this is already done:
    - Re-using eccentricity in other distance_measures 
- Linting 1: any objections to updating linter versions?
  * Tried last night, doesn't change code
  * Can do so with `pre-commit autoupdate` if we're okay using versions instead of hashes
- Linting 2: Enforce `pytest.raises` as context manager?
  * Ruff rule for this: https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/rules/legacy-form-pytest-raises/
  - API: Do we want to add `centroid` as an alias to `barycenter` in `distance_measures`?
  * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/8491
- Rich club: how to handle normalization: 
  * https://github.com/networkx/networkx/issues/8485
  * Side quest: is there a closed-form solution or approximation for number of non-isomorphic graphs with given degree sequence?
  * Need to decide how to do the "null model" for normalization
- the Pixi setup in the CI.
    - looks good, makes sense.
    - task runners help alot with this.

## Todo
- Convert `draw` to use `display` under the hood.  Review PR side-by-side comparison of the gallery TOC. Anything easy for nx-guides?
- deprecate bfs_predecessors (see https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8445)
- let's make random_paths funct private.
- Probably should Update docs to point to iplotx and/or display as needed. (Action: open an issue)
- We should help out contributors who have a single function optimization for their use-case. Probably by making backends with one function easy to use/share/morph.

## Old Topics
- Benchmarking: Building off what Derek put together.
    - pytest.benchmark vs asv for benchmarks? Are there better tools. 
        - What did Derek use in the end? Are there tools within that we could build on.
    - Three aspects to benchmarking:
        - presentation of results
        - running and data storage (ascii/csv/json, etc)
        - authoring (which datasets as well as parameters of the functions)
    - Can we put together a set of functions and datasets?
        - Create a NetworkX suite of graph benchmarks

# Topics for the next summit
- issue/PR triage and closing...
- Day for cuGraph action
- NXEP items
- pygraphviz wheels  and/or 2.0 and compatible with Graphviz
- read-only dicts version of views
- free-threading 
- parallel free-threading/parallel discussions