# NetworkX Developer Discussions: April 30, 2025

[Previous meeting notes](https://github.com/networkx/archive/tree/main/meetings) are available. 
Please add News, Discussion and Topics below.
Meeting link: https://colgate.zoom.us/j/92619161786

## Meeting Info
- Meeting time Thursdays 12-1 ET (5pm UTC)
- [dispatching meeting](https://hackmd.io/rqs_pWMxSLmICXCpI3w-Ug) 1st Tuesday of the month 11:30-12:30 ET 
- [Publicly available analytics for our docs pages](https://views.scientific-python.org/networkx.org)

**In attendance**: Dan, Mridul, Rick, Ross

## Meta- issues
- Add `AAAA` record to dns provider for networkx.org
    - Added by Stefan. Webpages are served by github. 2 networkx repos: website and documentation. Stefan and Jarrod have the keys to the domain name. Stefan arranged for AAAA service. 
  * https://github.com/networkx/website/issues/33 Closed as completed.
  * [hackmd on keys to the castle](https://hackmd.io/Yr07qQ0XQm6DcMoFiTZujg) doesn't seem to have any mention of cloudflare.
      * cloudflare served the webpages until nx 2.5 or so. A search for cloudflare in the documentation repo can show when that changed.
      * There seem to be many missing entries in the keys to the castle docs.

## Topics
- Summit planning updates
    - pier 57 looks like it is booked now. There are paid office space rentals by the day. Office for four people is ~$180/day. Not sure what that provides.
    - NYU should almost certainly have space available during the week. Ross will check that for sure this week.
    - Princeton is another possible day-trip is henry is interested and it makes sense for us to do that. Henry is there. Tom Caswell is at Brookhaven Lab on Long Island (1.5 hr drive from NYC).
    - CJ can give us space at Google for a half day or maybe a day.
    - The hotel lobby is probably good enough for just the 3 of us. :
- Release timing -- what do we want in NX v3.7
- pygraphviz!
  * Ready for release?
    - Wheels fix the graphviz API compatibility issue (for users)
    - Let's aim for a release asap.
    - [decision needed] Require Graphviz >13 for pygraphviz 2.0?
  * What to do about graphviz API compatibility issues for builders-from-source?
    - Consensus: Let's support all graphviz versions!
    - rossbar's vote: version rather than in-code version detection
- Node "expansion" function? I.e. replace node with a subgraph
  * See e.g. https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8596 as a potential use-case
  * Conceptually the "opposite" of node contraction
- Additional geometric graph generators
  * Most other libraries (wolfram, sage, etc.) have explicit generators for e.g. Archimedean solids. In principle, we do too with the `LCF_graph` generator! Not very discoverable though... can/should we do something about this?
      * gallery example, 
      * table of named graphs in LCF_graph docstring,
      * add functions that call LCF_graph under the hood
- optimal edit paths [PR 8590](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8590)
  * C3->P3 example is instructive (should probably be added to docstring)
  * Is there a bug?
    * First step: what would constitute a bug?
      - For rossbar:
        * High priority bug: if missing lower-cost solutions
        * Lower priority bug: if missing other (non symmetrical)
          edit paths with the same cost
    * Next step: Can we find instances of either of these?
      - Note also the "labeled vs. unlabeled" results may be
        throwing users off: is there really a bug, or a mismatch
        of user expectations given the default subst/ins/del costs?
- `_build_paths_from_predecessors`: https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8460
  * PR merged - still interested in seeing if it can't be improved using
    dict as LIFO!
  * I(dan) build a dict as LIFO example for the new tarjan strongly connected component PR. (That PR had good timing scripts and a 3-tuple queue that was faster to breaking into 3 separate list-based queues. The hard thing to do is "peek" at the top. It requires popping and re-adding. Still O(1) operation. I think it could work well for cases where we have (node, iter()) tuples in the queue. The 3-tuple case reduced to 2-tuple and a separate dict and the dict as LIFO was just barely slower than the 3 separate list-queues. So it might be faster compared to 2-tuples in a list queue.
  * Let's add a dict as LIFO example to NetworkX somewhere... maybe easiest in the recent Tarjan. Maybe in the depth-first-search code
- more laplacian matrix options [PR 8562](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8562)
    - magnetic laplacian is a way to get a herimitan (positive semi definite) laplacian-like matrix for directed graphs. This could help for using spectral methods on directed graphs (usual laplacian is not symmetric/hermition)
    - Does appear in wikipedia, but paper cited there has 8 citations in 6 years. Paper cited in PR is 2018 and has 65 citations. Seems a niche area, used maybe most in GNN.
    - Do we want to include it in our suite of laplacian functions?
- square counts (butterflies?) [PR 8591](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8591)
- panther algorithms [PR 8578](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8578)
    - report from edge case testing and energy from author have put forward fairly widespread changes. Backward incompatible changes due to off-by-one path length is perhaps biggest.
    - These are approximate methods. Hard to know how to test or check/ensure backward compatibility -- and whether that is as important in this seeting.
    - Could introduce a kwarg to keep old definition for a deprecation period. But the old answer is wrong. So probably should just break things.
- Voronoi [PR 8585](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8585)
- Trying out `display` in gallery
  * Draft PR incoming...
  * Running notes while working through: https://hackmd.io/@eBSTfWl9QO-pActuKqTJyA/ryml8rhEbg
  * Some items might be good while draft pr is coming:
      * change pos to allow dict
- bug in dominating set and very old draft PR [1573](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/1573) that probably fixes it and more.
- floating point examples [8389](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8389)
    - many comments in the issue, but not many PRs I think the gsoc students didn't end up doing that much. Am I missing something?
- random_walk followup
  * generator in, remaining TODOs:
    - [x] Improve docstring, esp. with examples of different termination conditions
    - [ ] benchmarks
    - [ ] ? make generate_random_paths private?
    - [x] Multiple implementations
      * [8525](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8525) - proposed impl during review
      * [8528](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8528) - nested generators
- Minimum feedback edge set : https://github.com/networkx/networkx/pull/8521
  * New proposal, seems like a reasonable add
  
## Todo
- Probably should Update docs to point to iplotx and/or display as needed. (Action: open an issue)
- We should help out contributors who have a single function optimization for their use-case. Probably by making backends with one function easy to use/share/morph.
- check whether pygraphviz is ready for wheels
- Linting 2: Enforce `pytest.raises` as context manager?
  * Ruff rule for this: https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/rules/legacy-form-pytest-raises/

## Old Topics
- Benchmarking: Building off what Derek put together.
    - pytest.benchmark vs asv for benchmarks? Are there better tools. 
        - What did Derek use in the end? Are there tools within that we could build on.
    - Three aspects to benchmarking:
        - presentation of results
        - running and data storage (ascii/csv/json, etc)
        - authoring (which datasets as well as parameters of the functions)
    - Can we put together a set of functions and datasets?
        - Create a NetworkX suite of graph benchmarks

# Topics for the next summit
- issue/PR triage and closing...
- Day for cuGraph action
- NXEP items (what are we doing with these? Can we use them better?)
- visualization plan and way forward
    - display and draw
    - iplotx vs display
- pygraphviz wheels  and/or 2.0 and compatible with Graphviz
- read-only dicts version of views
- free-threading 
- parallel free-threading/parallel discussions